%
"...without a Respectable Navy, Alas America!"
Captain John Paul Jones, 17 October 1776, in a letter to Robert Morris.
[Morgan, William James ed. Naval Documents of the American Revolution. vol. 6. (Washington, DC: Naval History Division, 1972): 1303.]
%
"I have not yet begun to fight!"
Captain John Paul Jones said this during the famous battle between Bonhomme Richard and Serapis on 23 September 1779. It seems that some of Jones' men cried for surrender, but not John Paul Jones. Captain Richard Pearson of Serapis asked Jones if he had surrendered. Jones uttered the immortal words: "I have not yet begun to fight!" So, at least, Lt. Richard Dale later recalled.
"I wish to have no Connection with any Ship that does not Sail fast for I intend to go in harm's way."
Captain John Paul Jones, 16 November 1778, in a letter to le Ray de Chaumont.
[Morison, Samuel Eliot. John Paul Jones: A Sailor's Biography. (Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1959): 182.]
%
"It follows then as certain as that night succeeds the day, that without a decisive naval force we can do nothing definitive, and with it, everything honorable and glorious."
President George Washington, 15 November 1781, to Marquis de Lafayette.
[The Writings of George Washington from the Original Manuscript Sources 1745-1799. vol.23. (Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1937): 341.]
%
"Don't give up the ship!"
Tradition has it that Captain James Lawrence said these heroic words after being mortally wounded in the engagement between his ship, the U.S. frigate Chesapeake, and HMS Shannon on 1 June 1813. As the wounded Lawrence was carried below, he ordered "Tell the men to fire faster! Don't give up the ship!"
Although Chesapeake was forced to surrender, Captain Lawrence's words lived on as a rallying cry during the war. Oliver Hazard Perry honored his dead friend Lawrence when he had the motto sewn onto the private battle flag flown during the Battle of Lake Erie, 10 September 1813.
[William S. Dudley, ed., The Naval War of 1812: A Documentary History. vol.2 (Washington, DC.: US Government Printing Office, 1992): 559]
%
"We have met the enemy and they are ours..."
Oliver Hazard Perry's immortal dispatch to Major General William Henry Harrison after the Battle of Lake Erie, 10 September 1813, "We have met the enemy and they are ours-- two ships, two brigs, one schooner and one sloop." The victory secured the Great Lakes region for the United States and ended the threat of invasion from that quarter.
[William S. Dudley, ed., The Naval War of 1812: A Documentary History. vol.2 (Washington, D.C.: Naval Historical Center, 1992): 553.]
%
"Damn the torpedoes, Full speed ahead!"
Admiral David Glasgow Farragut (1801-1870). Aboard Hartford, Farragut entered Mobile Bay, Alabama, 5 August 1864, in two columns, with armored monitors leading and a fleet of wooden ships following. When the lead monitor Tecumseh was demolished by a mine, the wooden ship Brooklyn stopped, and the line drifted in confusion toward Fort Morgan. As disaster seemed imminent, Farragut gave the orders embodied by these famous words. He swung his own ship clear and headed across the mines, which failed to explode. The fleet followed and anchored above the forts, which, now isolated, surrendered one by one. The torpedoes to which Farragut and his contemporaries referred would today be described as tethered mines.
[Hearn, Chester G. Admiral David Glasgow Farragut: The Civil War Years. (Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute Press, 1988): 263-265. According to the book by Admiral Farragut's son, The Life of David Glasgow Farragut, First Admiral of the United States Navy, (New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1879), pages 416-417, Admiral Farragut said "Damn the torpedoes! Four bells! Captain Crayton, go ahead! Joucett, full speed!"]
%
"You may fire when you are ready Gridley."
Commodore George Dewey, 1 May 1898, at the Battle of Manila Bay during the Spanish-American War. The American squadron entered Manila Bay and took fire from the Spanish fleet, anchored under the guns of Cavite, for half an hour until in the position Dewey wanted. Then Dewey addressed his order to Charles Gridley, captain of Dewey's flagship Olympia.
[Dewey, George. Autobiography of George Dewey, Admiral of the Navy. (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1913) 214.]
%
"A good Navy is not a provocation to war. It is the surest guaranty of peace."
President Theodore Roosevelt, 2 December 1902, second annual message to Congress.
%
"A powerful Navy we have always regarded as our proper and natural means of defense; and it has always been of defense that we have thought, never of aggression or of conquest. But who shall tell us now what sort of Navy to build? We shall take leave to be strong upon the seas, in the future as in the past; and there will be no thought of offense or provocation in that. Our ships are our natural bulwarks."
President Woodrow Wilson, 8 December 1914, An Annual Message to Congress.
[Link, Arthur S. ed. The Papers of Woodrow Wilson. vol. 31. (Princeton University Press, 1979): 423]
%
"Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition!"
Lieutenant Howell Maurice Forgy, USN (ChC), serving in the heavy cruiser USS New Orleans (CA-32) during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941, is credited with coining the phrase. Lieutenant Forgy saw the men of an ammunition party tiring as they labored to bring shells to the antiaircraft guns. Barred by his non-combatant status from actively participating in keeping the guns firing, Lieutenant Forgy decided that he could add his moral support to the ammunition bearers through words of encouragement, and so patted the men on the back and said, "Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition!"
His words were later popularized in a song written by Frank Loesser and performed by Kay Kyser and his orchestra.
[Hohenstein, Captain Raymond Charles, Chaplain Corps, U.S. Navy (Retired). Interview by Commander H. Lawrence Martin, Chaplain Corps, U.S. Navy. Transcript. (Oral History Program of the Chaplain Corps of the United States Navy, 1983): 27-29.]
%
"Sighted Sub, Sank Same."
Message sent by an enlisted pilot, AMM 1/c Donald Francis Mason, on 28 January 1942. Mason believed that he had sunk a German U-boat off Argentia, Newfoundland.
[Blair, Clay. Hitler's U-Boat War: The Hunters 1939-1942. (New York: Random House, 1996): 482.]
%
"Take her down!"
Commander Howard Walter Gilmore, desperately wounded and unable to climb back into his submarine, USS Growler (SS-215), in the face of an approaching Japanese gunboat 7 February 1943.
[Roscoe, Theodore. United States Submarine Operations in World War II. (Annapolis, MD: United States Naval Institute, 1949): 208.]
%
"The battle of Iwo Island [Jima] has been won. The United States Marines, by their individual and collective courage, have conquered a base which is as necessary to us in our continuing forward movement toward final victory as it was vital to the enemy in staving off ultimate defeat.... Among the Americans who served on Iwo Island, uncommon valor was a common virtue."
Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, 17 March 1945.
[CINCPACFLT Communique No. 300, World War II Command File, Operational Archives Branch, Naval Historical Center.]
%
"For in this modern world, the instruments of warfare are not solely for waging war. Far more importantly, they are the means for controlling peace. Naval officers must therefore understand not only how to fight a war, but how to use the tremendous power which they operate to sustain a world of liberty and justice, without unleashing the powerful instruments of destruction and chaos that they have at their command."
Admiral Arleigh Burke, CNO, 1 August 1961, Change of command address at Annapolis, MD
[Arleigh Burke, Speeches, Box 1, Operational Archives Branch, Naval Historical Center]
%
"The Navy has both a tradition and a future--and we look with pride and confidence in both directions."
Admiral George Anderson, CNO, 1 August 1961.
%
"Events of October 1962 indicated, as they had all through history, that control of the sea means security. Control of the seas can mean peace. Control of the seas can mean victory. The United States must control the seas if it is to protect your security...."
President John F. Kennedy, 6 June 1963, on board USS Kitty Hawk.
[Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States: John F. Kennedy, Containing the Public Messages, Speeches, and Statements of the President, January 1 to November 22, 1963. (Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office, 1964): 445.]
%
"I can imagine no more rewarding a career. And any man who may be asked in this century what he did to make his life worthwhile, I think can respond with a good deal of pride and satisfaction: 'I served in the United States Navy.'"
President John F. Kennedy, 1 August 1963, in Bancroft Hall at the U. S. Naval Academy.
[Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States: John F. Kennedy, Containing the Public Messages, Speeches, and Statements of the President, January 1 to November 22, 1963 (Washington: US Government Printing Office, 1964), 620]
%
Yesterday, December seventh, 1941, a date which will live in infamy, the United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan.
Franklin D. Roosevelt

Because my father was often absent on naval duty, my mother suffered me to do much as I pleased.
John James Audubon

There are but few naval powers, but there are many land powers.
Frank B. Kellogg

Competition in armament, both land and naval, is not only a terrible burden upon the people, but I believe it to be one of the greatest menaces to the peace of the world.
Frank B. Kellogg

France and Italy have not yet signed this treaty or agreed to naval limitation as between those nations, but I have confidence that in time they will do so.
Frank B. Kellogg

I do not hesitate to say that the limitation on naval craft between the great naval powers was too high.
Frank B. Kellogg

I know of no more important subject to the peace of Europe and the world than the reasonable reduction of armaments, especially in Europe, and of naval armaments throughout the world.
Frank B. Kellogg

Ads by Google
Advertising on YouTube
Reach more viewers and boost sales with AdWords for video.
adwords.google.com/video

Obviously I was challenged by becoming a Naval aviator, by landing aboard aircraft carriers and so on.
Alan Shepard

But Canada remains a crucial partner in this global war on terrorism, and we are grateful for that. Canadian naval vessels, aircraft and military personnel continue anti-terrorist operations in the Persian Gulf.
Paul Cellucci

Ironically, the Canadian naval vessels, aircraft and personnel in the Persian Gulf I mentioned earlier who are fighting terrorism will provide more support indirectly to this war in Iraq than most of the 46 countries that are fully supporting our efforts there.
Paul Cellucci

There are in most states one or two ministers of war, one of whom is the minister of naval affairs.
Fredrik Bajer

I wanted to do a naval film and I flirted with different ideas, most of which ended up being too intense. So when the idea of 'Battleship' was first suggested, I was instantly drawn to the challenge - could I invent a movie around the idea of five ships fighting five ships?
Peter Berg

The main American naval forces were shifted to the Pacific region and an American admiral made a strong declaration to the effect that if war were to break out between Japan and the United States, the Japanese navy could be sunk in a matter of weeks.
Hideki Tojo

My observations of Japanese naval fighting men, their abilities and equipment led me to believe that they gave a better account of themselves than we did.
Jack Adams

Later, after flying in the Navy for four or five years, spending some time on an aircraft carrier, I applied to and was accepted in a program where I went to graduate school first and then to the Naval Test Pilots School.
Mark Kelly

And then, when I went into the Navy, there was no choice. You took about half of the hours during your naval training as naval courses and the other half were engineering.
Daniel J. Evans

After the United States entered the war, I joined the Naval Reserve and spent ninety days in a Columbia University dormitory learning to be a naval officer.
James Tobin

The Halifax area has long played a major role in Canada's military operations, being the port of departure for convoys, naval task forces and army units over the past 100 years or so.
Alex Morrison


So popular is the naval service the only embarrassment is that men volunteer so rapidly we have to work overtime to give them hardy, adequate housing and proper training.
Josephus Daniels

Japanese naval officers in dress whites are frequent guests at Pearl Harbor's officers' mess and are very polite. They always were. Except, of course, for that little interval there between 1941 and 1945.
--William Manchester

THE MARK TWAIN QUOTE

Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do than by the ones you did. So throw off your bowlines. Sail away from safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore, Dream, Discover.

Mark Twain

THE EDWARD GIBBON QUOTE

"The winds and the waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators"

Edward Gibbon
THE JFK ANNAPOLIS QUOTE

"I can imagine a no more rewarding career, and any man

who may be asked in this century what he did to make his

life worthwhile, I think can respond with a good deal of

pride and satisfaction:

'I served in the United States Navy'

President John F. Kennedy

 

THE LINCOLN QUOTE

 "The solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom." 

Abraham Lincoln

 

THE KELLY QUOTE

"Since 9-11 the mind set is totally dIfferent. We need to deploy, we need to live overseas, we need to be engaged. We can't just sit at home and tuck our tails in and hide."

Rear Adm. James Kelly

 

THE NIMITZ QUOTE

"It is the function of the Navy to carry the war to the enemy so that it will not be fought on US soil."

Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz

 

 

THE SMITH QUOTE

"The United States Navy is the envy of every other navy in the world. They don't want to be like us - they want to be us."

Admiral Leighton Smith

 

THE TRUMAN QUOTE

To you who answered the call of your country and served in its Armed Forces to bring about the total defeat of the enemy, I extend the heartfelt thanks of a grateful Nation. As one of the Nation's finest, you undertook the most severe task one can be called upon to perform. Because you demonstrated the fortitude, resourcefulness and calm judgment necessary to carry out that task, we now look to you for leadership and example to further exalting our country in peace.

Harry S. Truman

 

THE WASHINGTON QUOTE

"Without a decisive naval force we can do nothing definitive, and with it, everything honorable and glorious."

President George Washington

 

THE ELEANOR ROOSEVELT QUOTE

"Sailors have the cleanest bodies and the filthiest minds"

Eleanor Roosevelt

 

THE EMERSON QUOTE

"The wonder is always new that any man can be a sailor"

Ralph Waldo Emerson

 

THE CONRAD QUOTE

"There is nothing more enticing, disenchanting and enslaving than the life at sea."

Joseph Conrad

 

THE HURSTON QUOTE

"Ships at a distance have every man's wish on board."

Zora Neale Hurston

 

THE CHURCHILL DESTROYER QUOTE

"Building slow destroyers ! One might as well breed slow race horses"

Sir Winston S. Churchill

 

THE CHURCHILL SUBMARINE QUOTE

"Of all the branches of men in the forces there is none which shows more devotion and faces grimmer perils than the submariners."  

Sir Winston S. Churchill

 

THE JOHN PAUL JONES QUOTE

I wish to have no connection with any ship that does not sail fast for I intend to go in harm's way.

John Paul Jones

 

THE ULYSSES S. GRANT QUOTE

"The art of war is simple enough. Find out where the enemy is. Get at him as soon as you can. Strike at him as hard as you can and as often as you can, and keep moving on."

General Ulysses S. Grant

 

THE SUBMARINER'S CREED QUOTE

"In each submarine there are men who, in the hour of emergency or peril at sea, can turn to each other. These men are ultimately responsible to themselves and each other for all aspects of operation of their submarine. They are the crew. They are the ship."

The Submariner's Creed (Excerpt)

The POWELL QUOTE (on Submariners)

No one has done more to prevent conflict - no one has made a greater sacrifice for the cause for Peace - than you, America’s proud missile submarine family. You stand tall among our heroes of the Cold War.”

General Colin Powell

THE REAGAN QUOTE (On the U S Marine Corps)

Some people live their entire lifetime and wonder if they ever made a difference to the world.... Marines don' t have that problem.

President Ronald Reagan - September 23, 1983

 

THE PRATT QUOTE

The Navy is much more than a job; much more than service to country. It is a way of life. It gets in your blood.

Albert Pratt, The Honorable Assistant Secretary of the Navy 1955

 

THE AMERICAN SAILOR

"I have spread the mantle of my nation over the ocean, and will guard her forever. 

I am her heritage, and yours.  I am the American Sailor."

Anon

PSALM 107

"They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters; these see

the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep."

Psalm 107




