[Will, a veteran ranger in a Night's Watch patrol, has discovered the mangled remains of several wildlings they were tracking]
Ser Waymar Royce: [their commander, a newcomer] What do you expect? They're savages; one lot steals a goat from another lot and before you know it they're ripping each other to pieces.
Will: I've never seen wildlings do a thing like this. I've never seen a thing like this in my life!
Ser Waymar Royce: How close did you get?
Will: Close as any man would.
Gared: [another veteran in the patrol] We should head back to the Wall.
Ser Waymar Royce: Do the dead frighten you?
Gared: Our orders were to track the wildlings. We tracked them. They won't trouble us no more.
Ser Waymar Royce: You don't think he'll ask us how they died? Get back on your horse.
Will: Whatever did it to them could do it to us. They even killed the children!
Ser Waymar Royce: It's a good thing we're not children. You want to run away south, run away. Of course, they will behead you as a deserter, if I don't catch you first. Get back on your horse, I won't say it again.

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
[Eddard Stark has beheaded a deserter from the Night's Watch]
Eddard Stark: You understand why I did it?
Bran Stark: Jon said he was a deserter.
Eddard Stark: But you understand why I had to kill him.
Bran Stark: Our way is the old way.
Eddard Stark: The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword.
Bran Stark: Is it true he saw the White Walkers?
Eddard Stark: The White Walkers have been gone for thousands of years.
Bran Stark: So he was lying?
Eddard Stark: A madman sees what he sees.

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
Robert Baratheon: Lord Eddard Stark, I would name you the Hand of the King.
Eddard Stark: [kneels] I'm not worthy of the honor.
Robert Baratheon: I'm not trying to honor you. I'm trying to get you to run my kingdom while I can eat, drink and whore my way to an early grave. Damn it, Ned, stand up. You helped me win the Iron Throne, now help me keep the damned thing.

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
Jon Snow: You're Tyrion Lannister? The Queen's brother?
Tyrion Lannister: My greatest accomplishment. And you, you're Ned Stark's bastard, aren't you?
[Jon walks away]
Tyrion Lannister: Did I offend you? Sorry. You are the bastard, though.
Jon Snow: Lord Eddard Stark is my father.
Tyrion Lannister: And Lady Stark is not your mother, making you ... the bastard. Let me give you some advice, bastard: never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor, and it can never be used to hurt you.
Jon Snow: What the hell do you know about being a bastard?
Tyrion Lannister: All dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes.

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
[Bran has just caught Queen Cersei having sex with her brother]
Cersei Lannister: He saw us!
Jaime Lannister: [to Bran] It's all right, it's all right, it's all right.
Cersei Lannister: He saw us!
Jaime Lannister: [to Cersei] I heard you the first time. [to Bran] Quite the little climber, aren't you? How old are you, boy?
Bran Stark: Ten.
Jaime Lannister: Ten? [pause] The things I do for love. [pushes Bran out of the window]

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
Magister Illyrio Mopatis: A Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths is considered a dull affair.

  --  Winter is Coming [1.01]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: We ride for King's Landing today.
Tyrion Lannister: Before you go, you will call on Lord and Lady Stark and offer your sympathies.
Joffrey Baratheon: What good will my sympathies do them?
Tyrion Lannister: None, but it is expected of you. Your absence has already been noted.
Joffrey Baratheon: The boy means nothing to me, and I can't stand the wailing of women.
Tyrion Lannister: [slaps Joffrey] One word and I hit you again.
Joffrey Baratheon: I'm telling mother!
Tyrion Lannister: [slaps Joffrey] Go, tell her! But first you will get to Lord and Lady Stark. And you will fall on your knees in front of them and tell them how very sorry you are, that you are at their service and that all your prayers are with them. Do you understand?
Joffrey Baratheon: You can't -
Tyrion Lannister: [slaps Joffrey] Do you understand?
[Joffery scurries away]
Sandor "The Hound" Clegane: The Prince will remember that, little Lord.
Tyrion Lannister: I hope so. If he forgets, be a good dog and remind him.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
Jon Snow: [after giving Arya her sword] First lesson: stick them with the pointy end.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
Jon Snow: All the best swords have names, you know.
Arya Stark: Sansa can keep her sewing needles. I've got a Needle of my own.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
Assassin: You're not supposed to be here. No one is supposed to be here. It's a mercy. [About Bran] He's dead already.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
Robert Baratheon: I swear, if I weren't your king, you'd have hit me already.
Eddard Stark: The worst thing about your coronation, I'll never get to hit you again.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
Eddard Stark: Daenerys Targaryen has wed some Dothraki horse lord. What of it? Should we send her a wedding gift?
Robert Baratheon: A knife, perhaps. A good, sharp one and a bold man to wield it.
Eddard Stark: She's little more than a child.
Robert Baratheon: Soon enough, that child will spread her legs and start breeding.
Eddard Stark: Tell me we're not speaking of this.
Robert Baratheon: [Enraged] Oh, it's unspeakable to you? What her father did to your family - that was unspeakable. What Rhaegar Targaryen did to your sister - the woman I loved. I'll kill every Targaryen I get my hands on!
Eddard Stark: But you can't get your hands on this one, can you?
Robert Baratheon: This Khal Drogo, it's said he has a hundred thousand men in his horde-
Eddard Stark: Even a million Dothraki are no threat to the realm, as long as they remain on the other side of the Narrow Sea. They have no ships, Robert!
Robert Baratheon: There are still those in the Seven Kingdoms who call me 'Usurper'. If the Targaryen boy crosses with a Dothraki horde at his back, the scum will join him!
Eddard Stark: He will not cross! And if by chance he does, we'll throw him back into the sea! [pause]
Robert Baratheon: There's a war coming, Ned. I don't know when, I don't know who we'll be fighting...but it's coming.

  --  The Kingsroad [1.02]
%
[In the throne room of the Red Keep]
Jaime Lannister: It must be strange for you, coming into this room. I was standing right here when it happened. He was very brave, your brother. Your father too. They didn't deserve to die like that; nobody deserves to die like that.
Eddard Stark: But you just stood there and watched.
Jaime Lannister: Five hundred men just stood there and watched. All the great knights of the Seven Kingdoms, you think anyone said a word, lifted a finger? No, Lord Stark. Five hundred men and this room was silent as a crypt...except for the screams, of course, and the Mad King laughing. And later, when I watched the Mad King die, I remembered him laughing as your father burned...it felt like justice.
Eddark Stark: [disdainful] Is that what you tell yourself at night? You're a servant of justice? That you were avenging my father when you shoved your sword in Aerys Targaryen's back?
Jaime Lannister: Tell me, if I'd stabbed the Mad King in the belly instead of the back, would you admire me more?
Eddark Stark: You served him well. When serving was safe.

  --  Lord Snow [1.03]
%
Petyr Baelish: We already owe Lord Tywin three million gold. What's another 80,000?
Eddard Stark: Are you telling me the crown is three million in debt?
Petyr Baelish: I'm telling you the crown is six million in debt.
Eddard Stark: How could you let this happen?!
Petyr Baelish: The Master of Coin finds the money, the King and the Hand spend it.
Eddard Stark: I will not believe Jon Arryn allowed Robert to bankrupt the Realm.
Grand Master Pycelle: Lord Arryn gave wise and prudent advice. But I fear His Grace doesn't always listen.

  --  Lord Snow [1.03]
%
Old Nan: Don't listen to it. Crows are all liars. I know a story about a crow.
Bran: I hate your stories.
Old Nan: I know a story about a boy who hated stories. I could tell you about Sir Duncan the Tall; those were always your favorites.
Bran: Those aren't my favorites. My favorites were the scary ones.
Old Nan: Oh, my sweet summer child. What do you know about fear? Fear is for the winter when the snows fall a hundred feet deep. Fear is for the the long nights when the sun hides for years, and children are born and live and die, all in darkness. That is the time for fear, my little lord; when the white walkers move through the woods. Thousands of years ago there came a night that lasted a generation. Kings froze to death in their castles, same as the shepherds in their huts, and women smothered their babies rather than see them starve, and wept and felt their tears freeze on their cheeks. So is this the sort of story that you like? [watches as Bran nods] In that darkness the white walkers came for the first time. They swept through cities and kingdoms, riding their dead horses, hunting with their packs of pale spiders big as hounds...

  --  Lord Snow [1.03]
%
Benjen Stark: [angrily] The Night's Watch is a joke to you, is it?! Is that what we are, Lannister? An army of jesters in black?!
Tyrion Lannister: You don't have enough men to be an army, and aside from Yoren here, none of you are particularly funny.
Benjen Stark: I hope we've provided some good stories for you to tell when you're back in King's Landing. Something to think about while you're drinking your wine down there, enjoying the brothels; half the boys you've seen training will die north of the Wall. Might be a wildling's axe that gets them, might be sickness, might just be the cold. They die in pain, and they do it so plump little lords like you can enjoy their summer afternoons in peace and comfort.
Tyrion Lannister: [joking] Do you think I'm plump? Listen, Benjen,...may I call you Benjen?
Benjen Stark: Call me what you like.
Tyrion Lannister: I'm not sure what I've done to offend you; I have great admiration for the Night's Watch. I have great admiration for you as First Ranger-
Benjen Stark: [chuckles] My brother once told me that nothing someone says before the word 'but' really counts.
Tyrion Lannister: But. I don't believe that giants and ghouls and White Walkers are lurking beyond the Wall. I believe the only difference between us and the wildlings is that when that wall went up, our ancestors happened to live on the right side of it.
Benjen Stark: You're right; the wildlings are no different from us. A little rougher maybe, but they're made of meat and bone; I know how to track them, and I know how to kill them. It's not the wildlings giving me sleepless nights. You've never been north of the Wall, so don't tell me what's out there.

  --  Lord Snow [1.03]
%
Maester Aemon: How many winters have you seen, Lord Tyrion?
Tyrion Lannister: Eight, no, nine.
Maester Aemon: All of them brief?
Tyrion Lannister: They say the winter of my birth was three years long, Maester Aemon.
Maester Aemon: This summer has lasted nine, but already reports from the Citadel tell us the days grow shorter. The Starks are always right eventually - winter is coming. This one will be long, and dark things will come with it.
Commander Mormont: We've been capturing wildlings, more every month. They're fleeing south; the ones who flee say they've seen the White Walkers.
Tyrion Lannister: [dismissive] Yes and the fishermen of Lannisport say they see mermaids.
Commander Mormont: One of our own rangers swore he saw them kill his companions. He swore it...right up to the moment Ned Stark chopped his head off!
Maester Aemon: The Night's Watch is the only thing standing between the realm and what lies beyond, and it has become an army of undisciplined boys and tired old men. There are less than a thousand of us now; we can't man the other castles on the Wall. We can't properly patrol the wilderness. We've barely enough resources to keep our own lads armed and fed.
Commander Mormont: Your sister sits by the side of the King. Tell her we need help.
Maester Aemon: And when winter does come...gods help us all if we're not ready!

  --  Lord Snow [1.03]
%
Maester Luwin: The boy has lost the use of his legs.
Tyrion Lannister: What of it? With the right horse and saddle, even a cripple can ride.
Bran Stark: I'm not a cripple.
Tyrion Lannister: Then I'm not a dwarf! My father will rejoice to hear it.

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
Robb Stark: Is this some kind of trick? Why do you want to help him?
Tyrion Lannister: I have a tender spot in my heart for cripples, bastards and broken things.

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
Hodor: Hodor.

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
Jon Snow: You can't fight. You can't see. You're afraid of heights and almost everything else, probably. What are you doing here, Sam?
Samwell Tarly: On the morning of my eighteenth nameday, my father came to me. You're almost a man now, he said, but you're not worthy of my land and title. Tomorrow you're going to take the black, forsake all claims to your inheritance and start north. If you do not, he said, then we will have a hunt, and somewhere in these woods, your horse will stumble and you'll be thrown from your saddle to die. Or so I will tell your mother. Nothing would please me more.

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: I am a Khaleesi of the Dothraki! I am the wife of the great Khal and I carry his son inside me. The next time you raise a hand to me will be the last time you have hands!

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
Ned Stark: Lord Baelish, perhaps I was wrong to distrust you.
Petyr Baelish: Distrusting me was the wisest thing you've done since you climbed off your horse.

  --  Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things [1.04]
%
[Having lost a tournament to Loras Tyrell, a furious Gregor Clegane attacks him]
Sandor Clegane: Leave him be! (He rushes to the aid of Loras, and defends him)
Robert Baratheon: [standing up] STOP THIS MADNESS IN THE NAME OF YOUR KING! [Sandor kneels, but Gregor merely stalks off]
Loras Tyrell: I owe you my life, ser.
Sandor Clegane: I'm no "ser".

  --  The Wolf and the Lion [1.05]
%
Robert Baratheon: Backstabbing doesn't prepare you for a fight and that's all the realm is now: backstabbing and scheming and arse-licking and money-grubbing. Sometimes I don't know what holds it together.
Cersei Lannister: Our marriage. [both burst out laughing]
Robert Baratheon: So, here we sit, 17 years later, holding it all together. Don't you get tired?
Cersei Lannister: Every day.
Robert Baratheon: How long can hate hold a thing together?
Cersei Lannister: Well, 17 years is quite a long time.
Robert Baratheon: [raises glass] Yes, it is.
Cersei Lannister: [raises glass] Yes, it is. [drinks] What was she [Lyanna Stark] like?
Robert Baratheon: [shocked] You've never asked about her, not once. Why now?
Cersei Lannister: At first, just saying her name, even in private, felt like I was breathing life back into her. I thought if I didn't talk about her, she'd just fade away for you. When I realised that wasn't going to happen, I refused to ask out of spite; I didn't want to give you the satisfaction of thinking I cared to ask. And eventually it became clear that my spite didn't mean anything to you; as far as I could tell, you actually enjoyed it!
Robert Baratheon: So why now?
Cersei Lannister: What harm could Lyanna Stark's ghost do to either of us that we haven't done to each other a hundred times over?
Robert Baratheon: [sadly] You want to know the horrible truth? I can't even remember what she looked like. I only know she was the one thing I ever wanted. Someone took her away from me, and seven kingdoms couldn't fill the hole she left behind.

  --  The Wolf and the Lion [1.05]
%
[Eddard Stark has opposed Robert Baratheon's plan to assassinate the Targaryens]
Robert Baratheon: You're my council. Counsel! Speak sense to this "honorable" fool!
Varys: I understand your misgivings, my lord. Truly, I do. It is a terrible thing we must consider, a vile thing. Yet we who presume to rule must sometimes do vile things for the good of the realm. Should the gods grant Daenerys a son, the realm will bleed.
Pycelle: I bear this girl no ill will, but should the Dothraki invade, how many innocents will die? How many towns will burn? Is it not wiser - kinder, even - that she should die now, so that tens of thousands might live?
Renly Baratheon: We should have had them both killed years ago!
Petyr Baelish: When you find yourselves in bed with an ugly woman - best close your eyes and get it over with. [the others cringe at this crude picture] Cut her throat and be done with it!
Eddard Stark: [walks straight up to Robert] I followed you into war. Twice. Without doubts, without second thoughts. But I will not follow you now. The Robert I grew up with didn't tremble at the shadow of an unborn child.
Robert Baratheon: She dies.
Eddard Stark: I will have no part in it.
Robert Baratheon: You're the King's Hand, Lord Stark. You'll do as I command, or I'll find me a Hand who will!
[Eddard takes off his badge of office and tosses it onto the table in front of Robert]
Eddard Stark: And good luck to him.

  --  The Wolf and the Lion [1.05]
%
Lysa Arryn: [to her son, Robert] He killed your father, he murdered the Hand of the King!
Tyrion Lannister: [sarcastically] Oh, did I kill him too? I've been a very busy man.

  --  The Wolf and the Lion [1.05]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [calling out to his gaoler, Mord] MORD!!! TURNKEY!!!
Mord: [bursts into the sky cell, hitting Tyrion and driving him into a corner] Dwarf man making noise!
Tyrion Lannister: [to his gaoler, Mord] How would you like to be rich?
Mord: [hits Tyrion] Dwarf man STILL making noise!
Tyrion Lannister: M-my family has rich. They have gold. Lots of gold. I'm prepared to give you lots of gold.
Mord: [searches Tyrion] No gold. [hits him]
Tyrion Lannister: Well, I don't have it here!
Mord: No gold! [hits him again and leaves]

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
Tyrion Lannister: About the gold- [Mord hits Tyrion]
Mord: No gold! No gold!
Tyrion Lannister: Listen to me, sometimes, possession, is an abstract concept-[Mord hits him] When they captured me, they took my purse, but the gold is still mine!
Mord: Where?!
Tyrion Lannister: "Where?!" I don't know where, but-[Mord hits Tyrion] Free me!
Mord: You want free? [gestures to the mile-long drop where his cell ends] Go be free.
Tyrion Lannister: Have you ever heard the phrase "rich as a Lannister"? Of course you have. You're a smart man. You know who the Lannisters are. I am a Lannister. Tyrion, son of Tywin. Of course, you've also heard the phrase "a Lannister always pays his debts". If you deliver a message to Lady Arryn for me, I will be in your debt.
[Mord looks at Tyrion incredulously]
Tyrion Lannister: I will owe you gold. ... If you deliver the message, and I live, which I very much intend to do.
Mord: [suspicious] What message?
Tyrion Lannister: [gets up] Tell her I wish to confess my crimes.

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
Lysa Arynn: You wish to confess your crimes?
Tyrion Lannister: Yes, my Lady, I do, my Lady.
Lysa Arynn: (smugly, to her sister Catelyn Stark) Sky cells always break them. (to Tyrion) Speak, Imp- and meet your Gods as an honest man!
Tyrion Lannister: ...Where do I begin, my lords and ladies? I'm a vile man, I confess it. My crimes and sins are beyond counting. I have lied and cheated. Gambled and whored. I'm not particularly good at violence, but I'm good at convincing others to do violence for me. (Catelyn looks at him urgently, hoping he will confess to ordering the hit on Bran) You want specifics, I suppose? When I was seven, I saw a servant girl bathing in the river. I stole her robe. She was forced to return to the castle naked and in tears. If I close my eyes, I can still see her tits bouncing. When I was ten, I stuffed my uncle's boots with goat shit. When confronted with my crime, I blamed a squire. Poor boy was flogged and I escaped justice. When I was twelve, I milked my eel into a pot of turtle stew. I flogged the one-eyed snake. I skinned my sausage. I made the bald man cry! (makes masturbation gestures; some of the nobles begin to giggle, others look offended) Into the turtle stew, which I do believe my sister ate. At least I hope she did. (many of the assembled have broken out in laughter) Once I brought a jackass and a honeycomb into a brothel...
Lysa Arryn: (stands up angrily) Silence!
Robin Arryn: What happened next? (Lysa shushes him)
Lysa Arryn: What do you think you're doing?!
Tyrion Lannister: (pretending to act bewildered) Confessing my crimes.
Catelyn Stark: (sharply) Lord Tyrion, you are accused of hiring a man to slay my son Bran in his bed, and of conspiring to murder my sister's husband Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King.
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, I'm very sorry. I don't know anything about all that.
Lysa Arryn: (furious) You've had your little joke- I trust you enjoyed it! Mord! (Mord steps forward) Take him back to the dungeon! This time, find a smaller cell- with a steeper floor!
Tyrion Lannister: (angrily, to the room at large) Is this how justice is done in the Vale?! You accuse me of crimes, I deny them- so you throw me into a cell to freeze and starve! Where is the King's justice?! I am accused, and demand a trial! (Catelyn looks uncomfortable)
Lysa Arryn: (looks uneasy) If you're tried and found guilty, then by the King's own laws, you will pay with your life!
Tyrion Lannister: (nods impatiently) I understand the law.
Lysa Arryn: We have no executioner in the Eyrie- life is more elegant here. (to one of the Arryn bannermen) Open the Moon Door! (the bannerman does so, Tyrion stares nervously down through the door) You want a trial, my Lord Lannister? Very well... (both she and Robin smile maliciously) My son will listen to whatever you have to say, and you will hear his judgement. (Robin giggles) Then, you will leave... by one door, or the other.
Tyrion Lannister: (calmly, aware Robin will have him killed no matter what he says) No need to bother Lord Robin- I demand a trial by combat. (the assembled nobles begin laughing, Bronn looks interested; Lysa looks uncertainly to Catelyn, who shrugs)
Lysa Arryn: (irritably) You have that right.
1st Vale knight: My lady, I beg the honor. Let me be your champion.
2nd Vale knight: The honor should be mine! For the love I bore your Lord husband- let me avenge his death! (other knights and nobles begin to call for Lysa's support)
Robin Arryn: (jumps up) Make the bad man FLY! (Lysa pulls him back into his seat)
Lysa Arryn:...Ser Vardis. You're quiet- did you want to avenge my husband?
Ser Vardis Egan: (kneels) With all my heart, my Lady. But the Imp is half my size- shameful to slaughter such a man, and call it "justice"
Tyrion Lannister: (nods) Agreed.
Lysa Arryn: (angrily) You demanded a trial by combat!
Tyrion Lannister: And now, I demand a champion- I have that right, same as you.
Ser Vardis Egan: (stands) My Lady, I will gladly fight the Imp's champion for you. (Lysa smiles and nods, satisfied)
Tyrion Lannister: (smiles at him) I wouldn't be too glad, Ser- I name my brother, Jaime Lannister. (Ser Vardis looks startled)
Lysa Arryn: The Kingslayer is hundreds of miles from here.
Tyrion Lannister: Send a raven for him- I'm happy to wait.
Lysa Arryn: (shakes her head, smiles coldly) The trial will be today.
Tyrion Lannister: ...Do I have a volunteer? (the assembled laugh mockingly as Tyrion looks from one to the next, in increasing desperation) Anyone?... anyone? (Robin giggles)
Lysa Arynn: I think we can assume that no one is willing to-
Bronn: (shrugs, steps forward) I'll stand for the dwarf. (Everyone looks in shock and bewilderment, Tyrion looks surprised and delighted)

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
[Bronn, fighting for Tyrion, has just slain Lysa Arryn's champion, Ser Vardis, in a trial by combat]
Lysa Arryn: (to Bronn, childishly angry) You do not fight with honor!
Bronn: No. (shrugs, gestures mockingly to his fallen foe) He did. (Mord unlocks Tyrion's shackles)
Robin Arryn: ...Can I make the little man fly now?
Tyrion Lannister: Not this little man. This little man is going home. (approaches Ser Rodrik Cassel) I believe you have something of mine.(Rodrik looks to Catelyn, who nods; he tosses Tyrion his purse, Tyrion bows to Catelyn and turns to leave. As Tyrion exits followed by Bronn, he tosses it at Mord, whom he earlier promised a reward) A Lannister always pays his debts.

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
Robert Baratheon: Back in our day, you weren't a real man until you fucked one girl from each of the Seven Kingdoms and the Riverlands. We used to call it 'Making the Eight'.
Renly Baratheon: [sarcastic] Those were some lucky girls.
Robert Baratheon: You ever make the eight, Barristan?
Barristan Selmy: I don't believe so, Your Grace.
Robert Baratheon: [laughs] Those were the days.
Renly Baratheon: Which days exactly? The ones where half of Westeros fought the other half and millions died? Or before that, when the Mad King slaughtered women and babies because the voices in his head told him they deserved it? Or way before that, when dragons burned whole cities to the ground!
Robert Baratheon: Easy boy. You might be my brother, but you're speaking to the King.
Renly Baratheon: I suppose it was all rather heroic, if you were drunk enough and had some poor Riverlands whore to shove your prick inside and "make the eight".

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
[Viserys is restrained by Drogo's bloodriders for threatening Daenerys, since Drogo has not given him the crown he promised]
Jorah Mormont: Look away, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: No.
Viserys Targaryen: (terrified) Dany, Dany tell them, make them, make them. You can't, please. [To Daenerys, hysterically in tears] DANY, PLEASE! [Daenerys remains silent]
Khal Drogo: [walks up to Viserys with a pot of molten gold] A Crown for a King.
[He upends the pot onto Viserys' head, painfully killing him]
Daenerys Targaryen: He was no dragon. Fire cannot kill a dragon.

  --  A Golden Crown [1.06]
%
Tywin Lannister: The lion does not concern himself with the opinions of the sheep.[pause] I suppose I should be grateful your vanity got in the way of your recklessness. [pause] I'm giving you half of our forces-thirty thousand men. You will bring them to Catelyn Stark's girlhood home and remind her that Lannisters pay their debts!
Jaime Lannister: I didn't know you put such a high value on my brother's life.
Tywin Lannister: He's a Lannister. He might be the lowest of the Lannisters, but he is one of us. And every day that he remains a prisoner, the less our name commands respect.
Jaime Lannister: So, the lion does concern himself with the opinions -
Tywin Lannister: It's not an opinion, it's a fact! If another house can seize one of our own, and hold him captive with impunity, it means we're no longer a house to be feared! Your mother's dead, before long I'll be dead, and you...and your brother and your sister and all of her children. All of us dead, all of us rotting in the ground. It's the family name that lives on. It's all that lives on. Not your honor, not your personal glory, family.
...
Tywin Lannister: You're blessed with abilities that few men possess. You're blessed to belong to the most powerful family in the Kingdoms, and you're still blessed with youth. And what have you done with these blessings? You've served as a glorified bodyguard for two kings, one a madman, the other a drunk. The future of our family will be determined in these next few months. We could establish a dynasty that will last a thousand years...or we could collapse into nothing, as the Targaryens did. I need you to become the man you were always meant to be. Not next year, not tomorrow...now.

  --  You Win or You Die [1.07]
%
Eddard Stark: I know the truth Jon Arryn died for.
Cersei Lannister: Do you, Lord Stark? Is that why you call me here, to pose me riddles?
Eddard Stark: [gesturing to the bruise on Cersei's cheek] Has he done this before?
Cersei Lannister: Jaime would have killed him. My brother is worth a thousand of your friend.
Eddard Stark: Your brother? Or your lover?
Cersei Lannister: The Targaryens wed brothers and sisters for three hundred years to keep bloodlines pure. Jaime and I are more than brother and sister; we shared a womb, came into this world together - we belong together.
Eddard Stark: My son saw you with him.
Cersei Lannister: Do you love your children?
Eddard Stark: With all my heart.
Cersei Lannister: No more than I love mine.
Eddard Stark: And they're all Jaime's.
Cersei Lannister: [chuckles] Thank the gods. In the rare event Robert leaves his whores long enough to stumble drunken into my bed, I finish him off in other ways. In the morning, he doesn't remember.
Eddard Stark: You've always hated him!
Cersei Lannister: Hated him?! I worshipped him! Every girl in the Seven Kingdoms dreamed of him, but he was mine by oath. And when I finally saw him on our wedding day in the Sept of Baelor, lean and fierce and black-bearded, it was the happiest moment of my life. And that night, he crawled on top of me, stinking of wine, and did what he did - what little he could do ... and whispered in my ear, "Lyanna". Your sister was a corpse, I was a living girl, and he loved her more than me!
Eddard Stark: When the king returns from his hunt, I will tell him the truth. You must be gone by then, you and your children; I won't have their blood on my hands. Go as far away as you can with as many men as you can, because wherever you go, Robert's wrath will follow you.
Cersei Lannister: And what of my wrath, Lord Stark? You should have taken the realm for yourself. Jaime told me about the day King's Landing fell. He was sitting on the Iron Throne, and you made him give it up. All you needed to do was climb the steps yourself ... such a sad mistake.
Eddard Stark: I've made many mistakes in my life, but that wasn't one of them.
Cersei Lannister: Oh, but it was. When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground.

  --  You Win or You Die [1.07]
%
Renly Baratheon: Lord Stark, a moment...Alone, if you will? [Eddard dismisses his guards] He [Robert] named you Protector of the Realm?
Eddard Stark: He did.
Renly Baratheon: She won't care. Give me an hour, and I can put a hundred swords at your command.
Eddard Stark: And what should I do with a hundred swords?
Renly Baratheon: Strike! Tonight, while the castle sleeps! We must get Joffrey away from his mother and into our custody; Protector of the Realm or no, he who holds the king holds the kingdom. Every moment you delay gives Cersei another moment to prepare; by the time Robert dies, it will be too late for the both of us!
Eddard Stark: And what about Stannis?
Renly Baratheon: [incredulous] Saving the Seven Kingdoms from Cersei and delivering them to Stannis?! You have odd notions about protecting the realm!
Eddard Stark: Stannis is your older brother-
Renly Baratheon: This isn't about the bloody line of succession! That didn't matter when you rebelled against the Mad King, it shouldn't matter now! What's best for the Kingdoms? What's best for the people we rule? We all know what Stannis is; he inspires no love or loyalty. He's not a king...I am.
Eddard Stark: Stannis is a commander. He's led men into war twice, he destroyed the Greyjoy fleet-
Renly Baratheon: Yes, he's a good soldier, everyone knows that; so was Robert! Tell me something, do you still believe good soldiers make good kings?
Eddard Stark: I will not dishonour Robert's last hours by shedding blood in his halls and dragging frightened children from their beds.

  --  You Win or You Die [1.07]
%
Khal Drogo: [translated from Dothraki] And to my son, the stallion who will mount the world, I will also pledge a gift. I will give him the iron chair that his mother's father sat upon. I will give him Seven Kingdoms. I, Drogo, will do this. I will take my Khalasar west to where the world ends and ride wooden horses across the black salt water as no Khal has done before! I will kill the men in iron suits and tear down their stone houses! I will rape their women, take their children as slaves and bring their broken gods back to Vaes Dothrak! This, I vow, I, Drogo, son of Bharbo. I swear before the Mother of Mountains as the stars look down in witness! As the stars look down in witness!

  --  You Win or You Die [1.07]
%
Petyr Baelish: [after betraying Ned] I did warn you not to trust me.

  --  You Win or You Die [1.07]
%
Ser Meryn Trant: Arya Stark, come with us. Your father wants to see you. [Arya starts to walk toward Trant, but Syrio stops her]
Syrio Forel: And why is it that Lord Eddard is sending Lannister men in place of his own, I wonder?
Ser Meryn Trant: Mind your place, dancing master. This is no concern of yours.
Arya Stark: My father wouldn't send you. [picks up a wooden practice sword] And I don't have to go with you if I don't want.
Ser Meryn Trant: [laughs] Take her.
Syrio Forel: Are you men or snakes that you would threaten a child?
Lannister guard: Get out of my way, little man.
Syrio Forel: I am Syrio Forel...
Lannister guard: Foreign bastard.
[Syrio whacks the Lannister guard on the head with his wooden sword, knocking him out]
Syrio Forel: And you will be speaking to me with more respect.
Ser Meryn Trant: Kill the Braavosi! Bring the girl.
Syrio Forel: Arya child, we are done with dancing for today. Run to your father.
[Syrio proceeds to beat up all four Lannister soldiers]
Ser Meryn Trant: [draws his sword] Bloody oafs!
Syrio Forel: Begone, Arya.
Arya Stark: Come with me, Syrio. Run.
Syrio Forel: The First Sword of Braavos does not run.
[Meryn Trant and Syrio fight briefly, then Trant snaps Syrio's sword in half]
Syrio Forel: What do we say to the god of death?
Arya Stark: [shivering] Not today. [runs]

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Robb Stark: Treason? Sansa wrote this?
Maester Luwin : It is your sister's hand, but the Queen's words. You are summoned to King's Landing to swear fealty to the new king.
Robb Stark: Joffrey puts my father in chains, now he wants his ass kissed?
Maester Luwin : This is a royal command, My Lord. If you should refuse to obey...
Robb Stark: I won't refuse. His Grace summons me to King's Landing, I'll go to King's Landing. But not alone. Call the banners.
Maester Luwin : All of them, My Lord?
Robb Stark: They've all sworn to defend my father, have they not?
Maester Luwin : They have.
Robb Stark: Now we see what their words are worth.
Maester Luwin : Yeah.
[Maester Luwin goes away]
Theon: Are you afraid?
Robb Stark [showing his hand trembling for fear]: I must be.
Theon: Good.
Robb Stark: Why is that good?
Theon: It means you're not stupid.

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Tyrion: What do you want from me, Bronn? Gold? Women? Golden women? Stick with me and you'll have them all, for as long as I'm around and not a moment longer. But you knew that; that is why you took up arms so valiantly to defend my honour!
Bronn: Alright, but don't expect me to call upon your lordship whenever you take a shit. I'm not your toady, and I'm not your friend.
Tyrion: Though I would treasure your friendship, I'm mainly interested in your facility with murder. And if the day ever comes where you're tempted to sell me out, remember this: Whatever the price, I'll beat it. I like living.

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Shagga: How would you like to die, Tyrion son of Tywin?
Tyrion Lannister: In my own bed at the age of 80, with a bellyful of wine and a girl's mouth around my cock!

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Drogo: Moon of my life, Mago says you have taken his spoils, a daughter of a lamb man who was his to mount. Tell me the truth of this.
Daenerys: Mago speaks the truth, my sun and stars. I have claimed many daughters this day so they cannot be mounted.
Drogo: This is the way of war. These women are slaves now to do with as we please.
Daenerys: It pleases me to keep them safe. If your riders would mount them, let them take them for wives.
Qotho: Does the horse mate with the lamb?
Daenerys: The dragon feeds on horse and lamb alike.
Mago: You are a foreigner. You do not command me.
Daenerys: I am Khaleesi. I do command you.
Drogo: [chuckles] See how fierce she grows? That is my son inside her, the stallion that will mount the world, filling her with his fire. I will hear no more. Mago, find somewhere else to stick your cock. [Mago spits in disgust and points his sickle-sword at Drogo]
Mago: A Khal who takes orders from a foreign whore is no khal at all! [Drogo's other bloodriders raise their sickle-swords at Mago]
Drogo: Stop! [the bloodriders back away; Drogo stands up and drops his sickle-sword to the ground- a gesture of contempt- then walks slowly towards Mago.] I will not have your body burned. I will not give you that honor. [Mago raises his sickle-sword, but Drogo simply presses his chest against the edge, leaving a small wound on his chest] The beetles will feed on your eyes. [Mago makes several swings, but Drogo dodges them easily; he draws his twin daggers and drops them on the ground as well] The worms will crawl through your lungs! [dodges several more attacks] The rain will fall on your rotting skin, until nothing is left of you but bones!
Mago: First you have to kill me! [attacks Drogo again]
Drogo: I already have! [Drogo ducks under the swing, slices open Mago's throat with the reverse edge of his own weapon, and then shoves his hand in the wound, tearing Mago's tongue out from its base]

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Bran: What did you mean about hearing the gods?
Osha: You asked them; they're answering you. Shhh. Open your ears.
Bran: That's only the wind.
Osha: Who do you think sends the winds but the gods? They see you, boy, they hear you. Your brother will get no help from them where he's going. The old gods have no power in the south. The weirwoods there were all cut down a long time ago. How can they watch when they have no eyes?
[...]
Bran: Are there really giants beyond the wall?
Osha: Giants and worse than giants. I tried telling your brother he's marching the wrong way. All these swords, they should be going the north, boy; north, not south. The cold winds are rising.

  --  The Pointy End [1.08]
%
Eddard Stark: Can you free me from this pit?
Varys: I could. But will I? No. As I said, I'm no hero.
Eddard Stark: What do you want? Tell me, no stories, no riddles. Tell me, what do you want?
Varys: Peace. Did you know that your son is marching south with an army of northmen? Loyal lad, fighting for his father's freedom.
Eddard Stark: [shocked] Robb? He's just a boy.
Varys: Boys have been conquerers before. But the man giving Cersei sleepless nights is the king's...the late king's brother. Lord Stannis has the best claim to the throne; he's a proven battle commander and he is utterly without mercy.
Eddard Stark: Stannis Baratheon is Robert's true heir. The throne is his by rights!
Varys: [tuts] Sansa pleaded so sweetly for your life, it would be a shame to throw it away. Cersei is no fool. She knows a tame wolf is more use to her than a dead one.
Eddard Stark: You want me to serve the woman who murdered my king, who butchered my men, who crippled my son?!
Varys: I want you to serve the realm! Tell the Queen you will confess your vile treason, tell your son to lay down his sword and proclaim Joffrey as the true heir! Cersei knows you as a man of honour; if you give her the peace she needs, and promise to carry her secret to your grave, I believe she will allow you to take the black and live out your days on the Wall, with your brother and your bastard son.
Eddard Stark: [laughs coldly] You think my life is some precious thing to me? That I would trade my honour for a few more years of...of what?! You grew up with actors; you learned their craft and you learnt it well. But I grew up with soldiers. I learned how to die a long time ago.
Varys: Pity. Such a pity. [Varys moves to leave, but turns back for one last word] What of your daughter's life, my lord? Is that a precious thing to you? [Ned is visibly given pause by the remark]

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Tywin Lannister: [on Robb Stark] The boy may lack experience, but he does have a certain provincial courage. [glares at Tyrion as he arrives to the briefing, late]
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, do continue.
Tywin Lannister: I do hope your savages are going to be of some use, otherwise we wasted good steel on them.
Kevan Lannister: The great hairy one insisted he must have two battle-axes, heavy black steel, double-sided.
Tyrion Lannister: Shagga likes axes.
Tywin Lannister: When the battle commences, you and your wildlings will be in the vanguard.
Tyrion Lannister: The vanguard? Me and the tribesmen, on the front lines?
Addam Marband: They do seem rather ferocious.
Tyrion Lannister: Ferocious? Last night a Moon Brother stabbed a Stone Crow over a sausage. Three Stone Crows seized the Moon Brother and opened his throat. Bronn managed to keep Shagga from chopping off the dead man's cock, which was fortunate, but even still Ulf is demanding blood money, which Shagga and Gunter refuse to pay-
Tywin Lannister: When soldiers lack discipline, the fault lies with their commander.
Tyrion Lannister: Surely there are ways to have me killed that would be less detrimental to the war effort!
Tywin Lannister: There'll be no more discussion on the matter.
Tyrion Lannister: [Pushes aside his plate] It appears I'm not hungry after all.

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Ser Jorah Mormont: [sees an infected and incoherent Khal Drogo] Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: Come. He's very strong. No one understands how strong he is.
Ser Jorah Mormont: [inspects the wound] He will die tonight, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: He can't. He can't. I won't let him.
Ser Jorah Mormont: Even a queen doesn't have that power. We must go quickly. I've heard there's a good port in Asshai.
Daenerys Targaryen: I won't leave him.
Ser Jorah Mormont: He's already gone, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: Even if he dies, why would I run? I am Khaleesi, and my son will be Khal after Drogo!
Ser Jorah Mormont: This isn't Westeros, where men honor blood. Here they only honor strength. There will be fighting after Drogo dies. Whoever wins that fight will be the new Khal. He won't want any rivals. Your boy will be plucked from your breast and given to the dogs.
Daenerys Targaryen: I won't leave him.

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Tyrion Lannister: (wakes up after the Battle of the Green Fork, having been accidentally knocked out by one of his own Hill Tribesmen)...I'm alive?
Bronn: Aye, you're alive. (sheathes his sword)
Tyrion Lannister:...Did we win?
Bronn: We wouldn't be having this conversation if we didn't. (they observe the Hill Tribes butchering the wounded and dying Northerners left on the battlefield. Tyrion tries to sit up, flinching in pain from his concussion)
Tyrion Lannister: How did our Tribesmen do?
Bronn: (raises his eyebrows, nods to the small slaughter going on around them) Yeah?... good.
Tyrion: ...It's nice to see them getting along.
Tywin Lannister: (rides up to Tyrion on his war-horse) You're wounded.
Tyrion Lannister: (sarcastically) Good of you to notice. (glances at Bronn) I hear we won.
Tywin Lannister: (scoffs) The scouts were wrong. There were two thousand Stark bannermen, not twenty.
Tyrion Lannister: (glances around) Did we get the Stark boy, at least?
Tywin Lannister: (impatiently) He wasn't here.
Tyrion Lannister: Where was he?
Tywin Lannister: With his other eighteen thousand men. (rides past)
Tyrion Lannister: (stunned at the scale of the trick Robb has played on them)...And where are they?!

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Rodrik Cassel: We should go, my Lady.
Catelyn Stark: No.
Rodrik Cassel: (impatiently) My Lady... (Suddenly, the Stark bannermen come charging out of the woods towards them, with Robb riding triumphantly at their head; Catelyn gives a sob of relief that they are victorious. Several Stark men dump Jamie Lannister on the ground before them, his hands bound)
Robb Stark: By the time they knew what was happening, it had already happened.
Jaime Lannister: Lady Stark, I'd offer you my sword, but, I seem to have lost it.
Catelyn Stark: It is not your sword I want. Give me my daughters back, give me my husband.
Jaime Lannister: I've lost them too, I'm afraid.
Theon Greyjoy: Kill him Robb, send his head back to his father. He cut down ten of our men.
Robb Stark: He's more use to us alive than dead.
Catelyn Stark: Take him away and put him in irons.
Jaime Lannister: We could end this war right now boy, save thousands of lives. I fight for the Lannisters, you fight for the Starks. Swords, knives, teeth, nails; choose your weapon, and we can end this.
Robb Stark: If we did it your way, Kingslayer, you'd win. (Jaime grins) We're not doing it your way.
Jon Umber: (leads Jaime away) Come on, pretty man!
Robb Stark: I sent 2,000 men to their graves today.
Theon Greyjoy: The bards will sing songs of their sacrifice.
Robb Stark: Aye, but the dead won't hear them. [turns to address his army] One victory does not make us conquerers. Did we free my father? Did we free my sisters from the Queen? Did we free the North from those who'd have us on our knees? This war is far from over.

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Aemon Targaryen: The gods were cruel when they saw fit to test my vow. They waited until I was old. What could I do when the ravens brought the news from the South? The ruin of my house. The death of my family. I was helpless, blind, frail, but when I heard they had killed my brother's son, and his poor son, and the children. Even the little children!
Jon Snow: Who are you?
Aemon Targaryen: My father was Maekar, the first of his name. My brother Aegon reigned after him, when I had refused the throne, and his son...was Aerys...whom they called "The Mad King."
Jon Snow: You're Aemon Targaryen.
Aemon Targaryen: I am a Maester of the Citadel, bound in service to Castle Black and the Night's Watch. I will not tell you to stay or go. You must make that choice yourself and live with it the rest of your days, as I have.

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
Eddard Stark: (as he is dragged through the crowds in chains, to the square before the Great Sept of Baelor, he spots Arya watching him from near the statue and warns Yoren as he passes) Baelor...Baelor! (Yoren spots Arya and moves to protect her; Eddard is marched up the steps to where Joffrey stands gloating, flanked by the Kingsguard. With Joffrey are Cersei, Sansa, Pycelle, Varys, Petyr Baelish, the Hound and Illyn Payne. The crowds are in uproar, but they gradually quiet) I am Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King. (hesitates, looks to Sansa, who nods encouragingly) I come before you to confess my treason, in the sight of Gods and men. I betrayed the faith of my King, and the trust of my friend, Robert. I swore to defend and protect his children, but before his blood was cold (pauses, swallows and continues the lie)... I plotted to murder his son, and seize the throne for myself. (the crowd erupts again; someone throws a stone at Eddard and knocks him off-balance, but the Hound helps him upright) Let the High Septon and Baelor the Blessed bear witness to what I say... (swallows, furious and ashamed at having to lie) Joffrey Baratheon is the one true heir to the Iron Throne (Joffrey looks triumphantly to Cersei, who smiles at him) By the grace of all the Gods, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. (the crowds begin yelling again; Arya and Sansa both look frightened, Arya reaches for Needle. Pycelle steps forward and raises his hands in a placating gesture)
Pycelle: As we sin...so do we suffer. This man has confessed his crimes...in sight of Gods...and men. The Gods are just! But...beloved Baelor taught us... they can also be merciful. (looks to Joffrey, waiting for him to pardon and exile Ned) What is to be done with this... traitor, Your Grace? (the crowds begin shouting, but Joffrey raises his hand, smiling, and they fall silent)
Joffrey Baratheon: My mother wishes me to let Lord Eddard join the Night's Watch. Stripped of all titles and powers, he would serve the Realm in permanent exile. (looks to Sansa) And my Lady Sansa... has begged mercy for her father. (Sansa smiles hesitantly; Joffrey pauses and turns back to the crowd) But they have the soft hearts of women; so long as I am your King, treason shall never go unpunished! (Sansa looks scared again) Sir Illyn! (with savage relish) Bring me his head! (the crowds erupt again; Pycelle, Baelish and Varys look stunned)
Sansa Stark: NO! (As a Kingsguard holds her back, Cersei whispers frantically in Joffrey's ear, trying to stop him; Eddard stares up at Sansa in shock) Someone stop him- NO! (Arya, horrified, gets down from the statue and tries to force her way through the crowd to her father, but Yoren catches her first. Two of the Kingsguard force Eddard to his knees as Sir Illyn comes up the steps, putting on a black hood)
Yoren: Don't look!
Arya Stark: Let me go! LET ME GO!
Yoren: Shut your mouth! Look at me- Look at me! (he pulls her close to his chest as Sir Illyn draws Eddard's own sword, Ice; Sansa is still screaming)
Sansa Stark: Stop him- STOP!
[Eddard looks all around him as Sir Illyn approaches; the sounds fade except for his breathing. He sees that Arya is no longer on the statue of Baelor, and, content that she is safe, bends his head forward as Sir Illyn raises the massive sword and swings. In the crowd, Arya looks up and sees birds flying away in response to the beheading; she closes her eyes in pain]

  --  Baelor [1.09]
%
[Catelyn and Robb Stark have just learned of Ned's death]
Robb Stark: [half sobbing] I'll kill them all. Every one of them. I'll kill them all.
Catelyn Stark: My boy, they have your sisters. We have to get the girls back...and then we will kill them all.

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: [furious] You knew what I was buying, and you knew the price!
Mirri Maz Duur: [unrepentant] It was wrong of them to burn my temple. It angered the Great Shepherd...
Daenerys Targaryen: This is not God's work. My child was innocent!
Mirri Maz Duur: Innocent? He would have been the stallion who mounts the world. Now he will burn no cities, now his Khalasar will trample no nations into dust.
Daenerys Targaryen: I spoke for you. I saved you!
Mirri Maz Duur: [scoffs] Saved me? Three of those riders had already raped me before you "saved" me, girl. I saw my God's house burn. There where I had healed men and women, beyond counting. In the streets, I saw piles of heads. The head of a baker, who bakes my bread. A head of a little boy that I cured of fever just three moons past. So, tell me again exactly what it was that you saved?
Daenerys Targaryen: Your life!
Mirri Maz Duur: Why don't you take a look at your Khal? Then you will see exactly what life is worth, when all the rest has gone.

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
[The Lannisters are stymied by Robb Stark's recent victories, and Jamie Lannister has been captured]
Tywin Lannister: They have my son.
Tyrion Lannister: The Stark boy appears to be less green than we'd hoped.
Harys Swift: I'm told his wolf killed a dozen men and as many horses!
Addam Marband: Is it true about Stannis and Renly?
Kevan Lannister: Both Baratheon brothers have taken up against us. Jaime captured, his armies scattered...it's a catastrophe. Perhaps we should sue for peace.
Tyrion Lannister: [knocks his glass to the floor, shattering it] There's your peace. Joffrey saw to that when he decided to remove Ned Stark's head. You'll have an easier time drinking out of that cup than you will bringing Robb Stark to the table now. He's winning, in case you hadn't noticed.
Kevan Lannister: I'm told we still have his sisters...
Harys Swift: The first order of business is ransoming Ser Jaime!
Addam Marband: No truces, we can't afford to look weak. We should march on them at once!
Kevan Lannister: First, we must return to Casterly Rock and raise-
[The Lannister lords begin arguing about what to do next]
Tywin Lannister: THEY HAVE MY SON! [All fall silent] Get out, all of you. [to Tyrion] Not you. [Tyrion takes a seat] You were right about Eddard Stark; if he were alive, we could've used him to broker a peace with Winterfell and Riverrun, which would have given us more time to deal with Robert's brothers, but now? Madness, madness and stupidity! [pause] I always thought you were a stunted fool. Perhaps I was wrong.
Tyrion Lannister: Half wrong. I'm new to strategy, but unless we want to be surrounded by three armies, it appears we can't stay here.
Tywin Lannister: No one will stay here. Ser Gregor will head out with five hundred riders and set the riverlands on fire from Gods' Eye to the Red Fork. The rest of us will regroup at Harrenhal, and you will go to King's Landing.
Tyrion Lannister: And do what?!
Tywin Lannister: Rule. You will serve as Hand of the King in my stead; you'll bring that boy-king to heel and his mother too, if needs be. And if you get so much as a whiff of treason from any of the rest- Baelish, Varys, Pycelle-
Tyrion Lannister: Heads, spikes, walls. Why not my uncle? Why not anyone?! Why me?
Tywin Lannister: You're my son.

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
Jonos Bracken: The proper course is clear; pledge fealty to King Renly and move south to join our forces with his.
Robb Stark: Renly is not the king.
Galbart Glover: You cannot mean to hold to Joffrey, my lord. He put your father to death!
Robb Stark: That doesn't make Renly king. He's Robert's younger brother. Now Bran cannot be Lord of Winterfell before me, Renly cannot be king before Stannis.
Galbart Glover: Do you mean to declare us with Stannis?
Lord Karstark: Renly is not right! [The Stark and Tully bannermen begin to argue]
Greatjon Umber: My lords. MY LORDS! [all fall silent] Here's what I say to these two kings. [spits, drawing laughter from the men] Renly Baratheon is nothing to me, nor Stannis neither. Why should they rule over me and mine from some flowery seat in the south? What do they know of the Wall or the Wolfswood? Even their gods are wrong. Why shouldn't we rule ourselves again? It was the dragons we bowed to and now the dragons are dead. [draws his sword and points it to Robb] There sits the only King I mean to bend my knee to: the King in the North! [kneels]
Lord Karstark: I'll have peace on those terms. They can keep their red castle, and their iron chair too. [draws his sword and kneels] The King in the North.
Theon Greyjoy: Am I your brother, now and always?
Robb Stark: Now and always, Theon.
Theon Greyjoy: [draws his sword and kneels] My sword is yours, in victory and defeat, from this day until my last day.
Greatjon Umber: The King in the North!
Stark and Tully bannermen: The King in the North! [all drawing swords] The King in the North! THE KING IN THE NORTH!

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
Jeor Mormont: (after telling Jon about several disturbing reports from Beyond-The-Wall) Do you think your brother's war is more important than ours?
Jon Snow: No.
Jeor Mormont: When dead men and worse come hunting for us in the night, you think it matters who sits on the Iron Throne?
Jon Snow: No.
Jeor Mormont: Good. Because I want you and your wolf with us when we ride out beyond the Wall tomorrow.
Jon Snow: Beyond the Wall?
Jeor Mormont: I'll not sit meekly by and wait for the snows. I mean to find out what's happening. The Night's Watch will ride in force, against the Wildlings, the White Walkers and whatever else is out there. And we will find Benjen Stark, alive or dead. I will command them myself, so I'll only ask you once, Lord Snow: are you a brother of the Night's Watch, or a bastard boy who wants to play at war?

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
Jorah Mormont: (after seeing Daenerys survive her husband's funeral pyre, and her three baby dragons hatch) Blood of my blood.

  --  Fire and Blood [1.10]
%
[Tyrion arrives at Joffrey's tournament, accompanied by Bronn and a number of hill tribesmen]
Tyrion Lannister: Beloved nephew! We looked for you on the battlefield, but you were nowhere to be found!
Joffrey Baratheon: [caught offguard] I...I've been here, ruling the kingdoms!
Tyrion Lannister: [mocking] And what a fine job you've done! [turns to his niece Myrcella] Look at you, more beautiful than ever! [to his nephew Tommen] And you! You're going to be bigger than the Hound...but much better looking! [indicates the Hound to Bronn] This one doesn't like me.
Bronn: I can't imagine why.
Joffrey Baratheon: We heard you were dead.
Myrcella Baratheon: I'm glad you're not dead.
Tyrion Lannister: Me too, dear. Death is so boring, especially now with so much excitement in the world. [turns to Sansa] My lady, I'm sorry for your loss.
Joffrey Baratheon: [outraged] Her loss?! Her father was a confessed traitor!
Tyrion Lannister: [curtly] But still her father. Surely having so recently lost your own beloved father, you can sympathise!

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
Tyrion Lannister: (whistling "The Rains of Castamere" as he enters the Small Council Chamber, to Cersei's surprise) Don't get up!... More ravishing than ever, Big Sister! War agrees with you! (grins mockingly and kisses the cheek of Cersei, who looks disgusted; Janos Slynt, Pycelle, Petyr Baelish and Varys, puzzled, watch him as he moves towards the Hand's chair)
Cersei Lannister: What are you doing here?
Tyrion Lannister: It's been a... remarkable journey! (sits down, pours himself wine) I pissed off the edge of the Wall- I slept in a sky-cell- I fought with the Hill-tribes! So many adventures- so much to be thankful for! (takes a gulp of wine)
Cersei Lannister: What are you doing here?! This is the Small Council!
Tyrion Lannister: (unperturbed) Yes- well, I do believe the Hand of the King is welcome at all Small Council meetings.
Cersei Lannister: Father is Hand of the King!
Tyrion Lannister: Yes. But- in his absence- (smugly hands a small scroll to Varys, who unrolls it)
Varys: (to Cersei) Your father has named Lord Tyrion to serve as Hand in his stead (Cersei exhales angrily) while he fights-
Cersei Lannister: (stands up suddenly) OUT! All of you, out! (Slynt, Pycelle, Baelish and Varys bow and leave hastily as Cersei storms around the table towards Tyrion) I would like to know how you tricked Father into this!
Tyrion Lannister: (scornfully) If I were capable of tricking Father, I'd be Emperor of the world by now. You brought this on yourself.
Cersei Lannister: (sits down, gives him a defensive look) I've done nothing.
Tyrion Lannister: Quite right, you did nothing- when your son called for Ned Stark's head! Now the entire North has risen up against us!
Cersei Lannister: I tried to stop it-
Tyrion Lannister: Did you? You failed. That bit of theatre will haunt our family for a generation.
Cersei Lannister:(dismissive) Robb Stark is a child.
Tyrion Lannister: Who's won every battle he's fought! Do you understand we're losing the war?!
Cersei Lannister: What do you know about warfare?
Tyrion Lannister: (shrugs) Nothing. But I know people, and I know that our enemies hate each other almost as much as they hate us. (pause)
Cersei Lannister: Joffrey is King.
Tyrion Lannister: Joffrey is King.
Cersei Lannister: You are here to advise him.
Tyrion Lannister: Only here to advise him. And if the King listens to what I say, the King might just get his uncle Jaime back.
Cersei Lannister: (pause) How?
Tyrion Lannister: You love your children. It's your one redeeming quality. That and your cheekbones. The Starks love their children as well, and we have two of them.
Cersei Lannister: One.
Tyrion Lannister: (raises an eyebrow ominously)...One?!
Cersei Lannister: Arya, that little animal, she disappeared.
Tyrion Lannister: Disappeared? What, in a puff of smoke?! (gives her a look of disbelief at her stupidity) We had three Starks to trade. You chopped one's head off, and let another escape. (smugly) Father would be furious. Must be hard for you- to be the disappointing child.

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
[Stannis and his council are writing a declaration]
Matthos Seaworth: And I declare on the honour of my House that my beloved brother Robert left-
Stannis Baratheon: He wasn't my beloved brother. I didn't love him. He didn't love me.
Davos Seaworth: A harmless courtesy, Your Grace.
Stannis Baratheon: A lie. Take it out.
Matthos Seaworth: That my brother Robert left no trueborn heirs, the boy Joffrey, the boy Tommen and the girl Myrcella being born of incest between Cersei Lannister and her brother Jaime Lannnister. By right of birth-
Stannis Baratheon: Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer. Call him what he is.
Matthos Seaworth: And her brother Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer. By right of birth and blood, I do this day lay claim-
Stannis Baratheon: Make it Ser Jaime Lannister the Kingslayer. Whatever else he is, the man's still a knight.
Matthos Seaworth: Ser Jaime Lannister the Kingslayer. By right of birth and blood, I do this day lay claim to the Iron Throne of Westeros. Let all true men declare their loyalty.
Stannis Baratheon: When Eddard Stark learnt the truth, he told only me. I'll not make the same mistake. Send copies of that letter to every corner of the realm, from the Arbor to the Wall. The time has come to choose. Let no man claim ignorance as an excuse.
Davos Seaworth: Your Grace, the Lannisters are the true enemy. If, for the time being you could make peace with your brother-
Stannis Baratheon: I'll not make peace with Renly while he calls himself king.
Davos Seaworth: But many have already declared for him. Mace Tyrell, Randyll Tarly...
Melisandre: Stannis does not need to beg this lord or that lord for support, the Lord of Light stands behind him.
Davos Seaworth: And how many ships has the Lord of Light got in his fleet?
Melisandre: He has no need for ships.
Davos Seaworth: I'm sure he doesn't, but we do if we're going to war. If not Renly Your Grace, join forces with Robb Stark.
Stannis Baratheon: Who'd steal the northern half of my kingdom. I've always served thieves according to their deserts, as you well know Ser Davos. Joffrey, Renly, Robb Stark, they're all thieves. They'll bend the knee or I'll destroy them.

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
Cersei Lannister: I heard a song once, about a boy of modest means, found his way in the home of a very prominent family. He loved the eldest daughter. Sadly, she had eyes for another.
Petyr Baelish: When boys and girls live in the same home, awkward situations can arise. Sometimes, I've heard, even brothers and sisters develop certain affections. And when those affections become common knowledge, well that is an awkward situation indeed, especially in a prominent family. Prominent families often forget a simple truth I found.
Cersei Lannister: And which truth is that?
Petyr Baelish: Knowledge is power.
[Cersei pauses a moment]
Cersei Lannister: [to her guards] Cut his throat. [her guards move to do so]
Cersei Lannister: No, wait. [chuckles] I've changed my mind. Let him go. [her guards do so] Step back three paces. [they obey]. Turn around. [they obey] Close your eyes. [they obey].
Cersei Lannister: [steps up to Petyr] Power is power.

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
Jaime Lannister: (mockingly, as Robb enters the cage where he sits bound) The King in the North!... I keep expecting you to leave me in one castle or another for safekeeping, but you drag me along from camp to camp! Have you grown fond of me, Stark? (grins) Is that it? (shrugs)I've never seen you with a girl...
Robb Stark: If I left you with one of my bannermen, your father would know within a fortnight, and my bannermen would receive a raven with a message: "Release my son and you'll be rich beyond your dreams- refuse, and your house'll be destroyed, root and stem."
Jaime Lannister: (shaking his head mockingly, feigning disbelief) You don't trust the loyalty of the men following you into battle?
Robb Stark: (smiles) Oh, I trust them with my life- just not with yours.
Jaime Lannister: (nods with grudging respect) Smart, boy. (stares up at Robb) What's wrong- don't like being called boy? (frowns mockingly) Insulted? (Robb's eyes glance outside the cage. Jaime hears snarling and heavy breathing outside and nervously glances over his shoulder; he sees Robb's direwolf, Grey Wind, stalking around the cage.)
Robb Stark: (calmly) You insult yourself, Kingslayer. You've been defeated by a boy- you'r held captive by a boy... perhaps you'll be killed by a boy. (Grey Wind enters the cage doorway and stands quietly next to Robb; Jaime watches him warily) Stannis Baratheon sent ravens to all the High Lords of Westeros. The King Joffrey Baratheon is neither a true King, nor a true Baratheon. He's your bastard son.
Jaime Lannister: Well, if that's true, Stannis is the rightful King. How convenient for him.
Robb Stark: My father learned the truth. (strokes Grey Wind's neck) That's why you had him executed.
Jaime Lannister: I was your prisoner when Ned Stark lost his head.
Robb Stark: (angrily) Your son killed him so the world wouldn't learn who fathered him and you... you pushed my brother from a window because he saw you with the Queen. (he grips the fur on Grey Wind's neck, causing the wolf to snarl at Jaime)
Jaime Lannister: ...You have proof? Or, do you want to trade gossip like a couple of fishwives?
Robb Stark: I'm sending one of your counsins down the King's Landing with my peace terms.
Jaime Lannister: You think my father's going to negotiate with you? (smiles and shakes his head) You don't know him very well.
Robb Stark: No... (smiles) but he's starting to know me.
Jaime Lannister: Three victories don't make you a conqueror.
Robb Stark: ...It's better than three defeats. (walks out; Grey Wind comes very close to Jaime, snarls and snaps in his face to intimidate him, then follows his master out.)

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
Robb Stark: [speaking to Alton Lannister, a Lannister emissary] I offer your cousins peace, if they meet my terms. First, your family must release my sisters. Second, my father's bones must be returned to us, so that he may rest beside his brother and sister in the crypts beneath Winterfell. And the remains of all those who died in his service must be returned also, that their families can honour them with proper funerals.
Alton Lannister: An honourable request, your Grace.
Robb Stark: Third, Joffrey and the Queen Regent must renounce all claim to dominion of the north. From this time to the end of time, we are a free and independent kingdom.
Northern Lords: The King in the North!
Robb Stark: Neither Joffrey nor any of his men shall ever set foot in our lands again. If he disregards this command, he shall suffer the same fate as my father...only I won't need a servant to do my beheading for me!
Alton Lannister: [stammering] Your Grace...these are...
Robb Stark: These are my terms! If the Queen Regent and her son meet them, I'll give them peace. If not, I will litter the south with Lannister dead!
Alton Lannister: King Joffrey is a Baratheon, Your Grace.
Robb Stark: Is he?

  --  The North Remembers [2.01]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [barring Varys' way out] I don't like threats.
Varys: [feigning ignorance] Who threatened you?
Tyrion Lannister: I'm not Ned Stark, I understand the way this game is played.
Varys: Ned Stark was a man of honour-
Tyrion Lannister: And I am not. Threaten me again and I'll have you thrown into the sea!
Varys: [now barring Tyrion's way out] You might be disappointed in the results. The storms come and go, the big fish eat the little fish and I... keep on paddling. [moves his hand away] Come, my Lord- we shouldn't keep the Queen waiting.

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
[Davos tries to convince the pirate Salladhor Saan to join Stannis' cause]
Davos Seaworth: Come with me and plunder the greatest city in Westeros. You'll be the richest man in Lys and the most famous. They'll be singing songs about you as long as men have voices to sing.
Salladhor Saan: Sallador Saan is a good name for songs.
Davos Seaworth: It is.
Sallador Saan: One thing; I want the Queen.
Davos Seaworth: The Queen?
Salladhor Saan: Cersei. I want her. I'll sail with your fleet, all 30 of my ships, and if we don't drown at the bottom of Blackwater Bay, I'll fuck this blond queen and I'll fuck her well.
Mathos Seaworth: This war isn't about you. We're not attacking King's Landing so that you can rape the Queen!
Salladhor Saan: I'm not going to rape her, I'm going to fuck her.
Mathos Seaworth: As if she would just let you.
Salladhor Saan: You don't know how persuasive I am. I never tried to fuck you.
Matthos Seaworth: Stannis is the rightful King and the Lord of Light.
Salladhor Saan: I've been all over the world, my boy, and everywhere I go people tell me about the true god. They all think they found the right one. The one  true God is what's between a woman's legs, and better yet a Queen's legs. [to Davos] I never thought you'd have a true believer for a son.
Davos Seaworth: Ah, he's young yet. I promise you the gold. I promise you the glory. I cannot promise you the Queen.
Salladhor Saan: You believe your king can win?
Davos Seaworth: He is the one, true king.
Salladhor Saan: You Westerosi are funny people. A man chops off your fingers and you fall in love with him. I'll sail with you, Davos Seaworth. You're the most honest smuggler I ever met. Make me rich.
Davos Seaworth: Get me to the gates of King's Landing and I will.

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [quoting Jeor Mormont] The cold winds are rising, and the dead rise with them.

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
(One of Daenerys's bloodriders has just returned, beheaded)
Ser Jorah Mormont: You have no need to see this.
Daenerys Targaryen: He is blood of my blood. Who did this?
Ser Jorah Mormont: Khal Pono, perhaps. Khal Jhaqo. They don't like the idea of a woman leading a khalasar.
Daenerys Targaryen: They will like it far less when I am done with them.

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
Janos Slynt: (after Podrick Payne accidentally spills wine on his hand) Dammit, boy!
Podrick Payne: Apologies, my Lord.
Tyrion Lannister: Leave us, Podrick- I believe we know how to pour our own wine. (Podrick leaves)
Janos Slynt: That your new squire? I Could've found you a proper lad...
Tyrion Lannister: Myself, I prefer the improper ones. (they chuckle, then drink)
Janos Slynt: Mmm- that's a good red. Dornish?
Tyrion Lannister: (nods) You know your wines, my Lord!
Janos Slynt: (smiles) That I do. (looks over the table) a fine dinner, my Lord.
Tyrion Lannister: (smiles) Call me Tyrion, please. I'm sure you're getting used to fine dinners, now that you're a Lord.
Janos Slynt: Maybe I'll hire this cook of yours.
Tyrion Lannister: (jokingly) Wars have been started for less! (Janos laughs and drinks again, Tyrion smiles, watching him carefully) I heard there was some trouble in Littlefinger's brothel, the other night.
Janos Slynt: (sets down his wine cup, nods) Nasty business- had to be done.
Tyrion Lannister: Yes, of course- the City Watch must keep the peace. (Janos nods) Only- I hadn't realized peace depended on killing babies.
Janos Slynt: (looks at him suspiciously) Orders are orders.
Tyrion Lannister: Quite right- especially the Queen's orders. (laughs half-heartedly)
Janos Slynt: (smiles coldly) I never said they were the Queen's orders.
Tyrion Lannister: No, but- who else would want to murder King Robert's bastards? She's always been a jealous woman
Janos Slynt: (clearly looking to change the subject) You know your sister better than I do.
Tyrion Lannister: You've heard the awful rumors about my brother and sister-
Janos Slynt: I don't listen to filth.
Tyrion Lannister: Well- that's good of you, but you have heard them. (with underlying sarcasm) I suppose people who do believe that filth consider Robert's bastards to be better claimants to the Throne than Cersei's children!
Janos Slynt: (impatiently) Joffrey is my King, the rest doesn't interest me.
Tyrion Lannister: I appreciate your loyalty. (Janos nods and drinks; Tyrion's smile suddenly vanishes) Tell me, when your men slaughtered Ned Stark's men in the throne room, did you give the order?
Janos Slynt: (visibly impatient that Tyrion will not drop the subject) I did, and I would again. The man was a traitor, he tried to buy my loyalty!
Tyrion Lannister: The fool...he had no idea you were already bought!
Janos Slynt: (angry) Are you drunk?! I'll not have my honour questioned by an imp!
Tyrion Lannister: (chuckles) I'm not questioning your honour, Lord Janos...I'm denying its existence!
Janos Slynt: (stands up, furious) If you think I'll stand here and take this from you, dwarf-
Tyrion Lannister: (sharply) "Dwarf"? You should've stopped at "Imp"! And, yes, you will stand here and take it from me- unless you'd like to take it from my friend here! (Janos looks to his right and sees Bronn standing there, grinning) I intend to serve as Hand of the King until my father returns from the war, and since you betrayed the last Hand of the King- well, I just wouldn't feel safe with you lurking about.
Janos Slynt: What are you- my friends at court will not allow this! The Queen herself-
Tyrion Lannister: The Queen Regent! And you're a fool to believe she is your friend.
Janos Slynt: (menacingly) We shall hear what Joffrey has to say about this!-
Tyrion Lannister: No, we shan't. (nods to Bronn, who nods to four Gold-Cloaks marching into the room.) There's a ship leaving for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea tonight. From there, it's rather a long walk to Castle Black. I hope you enjoy the Wall- I found it surprisingly beautiful- in a brutal, horribly uncomfortable sort of way. (smiles)
Bronn: (smugly) The lads will escort you- the streets aren't safe at night, my Lord. (Janos looks from him to Tyrion to the Gold-Cloaks in disbelief and rage)
Janos Slynt: These men are under my command! (Bronn rolls his eyes) I command you to arrest this cutthroat!
Tyrion Lannister: His name is Bronn- and he is the new Commander of the City Watch.
Bronn: Boys? (nods to the Gold-Cloaks, who step forward and grab Janos' arms, marching him out of the room)
Janos Slynt: (struggling as he is dragged out) I have friends at court- powerful friends! The King himself made me a Lord- (As the Watch leave with Janos, Bronn sits down in his vacated chair and accepts a cup of wine from Tyrion)
Tyrion Lannister: To the new Commander. (they toast and drink) If I told you to murder an infant girl- say, still at her mother's breast- would you do it, without question?
Bronn: Without question? No. (pause) I'd ask how much. (Tyrion stares at him uneasily)

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
Cersei Lannister: Lord Janos Slynt was Commander of the City Watch. You had no right to exile him-!
Tyrion Lannister: I have every right! I am the King's Hand!
Cersei Lannister: You're serving as the King's Hand until Father gets here. I am the Queen Regent!
Tyrion Lannister: Listen to me, Queen Regent, you're losing the people. Do you hear me?!
Cersei Lannister: [sneers] The people? You think I care?!
Tyrion Lannister: You might find it difficult to rule over millions who want you dead. Half this city will starve when winter comes, the other half will plot to overthrow you...and your gold-plated thugs just gave them their rallying cry; "The Queen slaughters babies!" [Cersei remains silent] You don't even have the decency to deny it! [realises] It wasn't you who gave the order, was it? Joffrey didn't even tell you? [Another uncomfortable pause] Did he tell you? I imagine that would be even worse.
Cersei Lannister: He did what needed to be done! You want to be Hand of the King?! You want to rule?! This is what ruling is; lying on a bed of weeds, ripping them out by the root, one by one, before they strangle you in your sleep!
Tyrion Lannister: I'm no king, but I think there's more to ruling than that.
Cersei Lannister: [furious] I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU THINK! You've never taken it seriously; you haven't, Jaime hasn't. It's all fallen on me.
Tyrion Lannister: As has Jaime repeatedly, according to Stannis Baratheon. [A pause, and then Cersei giggles]
Cersei Lannister: You're funny. You've always been funny...but none of your jokes will ever match the first one, will they? Do you remember, back when you ripped my mother open on your way out of her and she bled to death?
Tyrion Lannister: [angry and hurt] She was my mother too.
Cersei Lannister: Mother gone, for the sake of you. There's no bigger joke in the world than that.

  --  The Night Lands [2.02]
%
Bran: Every night it's the same: I'm walking, running, but I'm not me. I'm running through the Godswood, sniffing the dirt, tasting blood in my mouth when I've made a fresh kill, howling. Old Nan used to tell me stories about magical people who could live inside stags, birds, wolves.
Maester Luwin: That's exactly what they were, Bran: stories.
Bran: So she was lying? They don't exist?
Maester Luwin: Well, they may have done, but they're gone from the world along with much else. These are dreams, Bran, nothing more.
Bran: No. My dreams are different. Mine are true. I dreamt of my father dying and Rickon had the same dream.
Maester Luwin: What about all the dreams you had that didn't come true? [removes a link from his chain] This link is made of Valyrian steel. Only one Maester in a hundred wears it on his chain. It signifies that I have studied the higher mysteries, and all who study these mysteries try their hand at spells. I was not different. I was young and what boy doesn't secretly wish for special powers to lift him out of his dull life into a special one, but in the end, for all of my efforts, I got no more out of it than a thousand boys before me. Come on. [tucks Bran back to bed] Maybe magic once was a mighty force in the world, but not anymore; the dragons are gone, the giants are dead, and the children of the forest forgotten.

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
Tyrion Lannister: (accepting a vial of laxatives from Grand Maester Pycelle) Thank the Gods- I haven't had a proper shit in six days!
Pycelle: (chuckles) I've encountered this problem before, my Lord- the stresses of power often have this- erm- insalubrious effect. Two drops with water, daily.
Tyrion Lannister: I'm so grateful to have a man of your vast knowledge and wisdom on my side! (Pycelle makes a gesture of modesty and supplication) Please... (gestures to a chair)
Pycelle: Oh- thank you, my Lord. (shuffles over, sits)
Tyrion Lannister: (pause) I can trust you, Pycelle, can I not?
Pycelle: (feigning surprise) Why, yes, of course, my Lord!
Tyrion Lannister: These are perilous times- and the Crown must forge new alliances. (Pycelle nods) And these alliances must often be sealed in matrimony. (sits adjacent to Pycelle at the table)
Pycelle: Matriminy, eh? Yes... (nods)
Tyrion Lannister: I'm trusting the Council with these plans, but the Queen mustn't know. (Pycelle looks at him in confusion) I can't have her... meddling in affairs that could determine the future of the Realm- there's too much at stake!
Pycelle: Oh, yes, indeed... (nods definitively) I shall be silent as the grave!
Tyrion Lannister: (stands up, walks away from Pycelle) I'm brokering an alliance with House Martell of Dorne. Princess Myrcella will wed their youngest son, when she comes of age- ensuring their loyalty, and their army, should we need it. (pours himself wine)
Pycelle: (looking privately alarmed) Myrcella... sent away to Dorne?
Tyrion Lannister: But, remember- the Queen mustn't know. (walks back to the table- Pycelle's seat is now occupied by Varys)
Varys: Ooooh- "The Queen mustn't know" (grins; Tyrion returns the grin and hands him a cup of wine) I love conversations that begin this way.
Tyrion Lannister: I plan to marry Princess Myrcella off... to Theon Greyjoy.
'Varys: (looks bewildered) Theon Greyjoy. Forgive me, my Lord, but how? He grew up a ward of Winterfell- he fights for Robb Stark.
Tyrion Lannister: Precisely- Theon's father loathed the Starks, and will convince the boy to come to our side. (walks away, with Varys watching him uncertainly) Greyjoy can destroy the Northern army from within, and we can have his father's ships. But, remember- you must tell no one. (turns around; Varys is gone, and Petyr Baelish is leaning against the table)
Petyr Baelish: (smiles) Tell no-one ...what?
Tyrion Lannister: I plan to wed Princess Myrcella... to Robin Arynn of the Vale. (Baelish looks at him inquiringly) Lhysa... is not fond of me. But, perhaps the promise of a Royal match will convince her to... let bygones be bygones. (shrugs)
Petyr Baelish: (chuckles disbelievingly) She imprisoned you- she tried to execute you- and you offer her son, a princess?
Tyrion Lannister: (walks towards Littlefinger) For men in our position, holding grudges can be... an encumberance, don't you think? (smiles)
Petyr Baelish: And I suppose... you want me to broker this agreement?
Tyrion Lannister: Who better? (Baelish steps around the table)
Petyr Baelish: Yes, I could sing this song to Lhysa, if I cared to... What's in it for me?
Tyrion Lannister: The gratitude of the people of Westeros, for helping to end this war...the adoration of the King, for helping to bring the Vale back into the fold... and Harrenhall.
Petyr Baelish: Harrenhall is cursed. (turns away)
Tyrion Lannister: I never took you for a superstitious man. By all means, tear it down and rebuild. You'll be able to afford it- I'm planning to make you Lord of the Riverlands. (Baelish turns around sharply)
Petyr Baelish:(suspiciously) With a single stroke, you'd make me one of the greatest Lords in the Realm-
Tyrion Lannister: You served my family well, in the matter of the succession. (drinks)
Petyr Baelish': So did Janos Slynt- and he was given Harrenhall too, until you snatched it away.
Tyrion Lannister: I need you, to deliver Lhysa Arynn- I didn't need Janos Slynt. (smiles) It's settled, then? (Baelish nods, slowly) Good! (starts to leave, then turns back) Oh, and remember-
Petyr Baelish: The Queen mustn't know. (smiles; Tyrion grins, drains his wine cup and leaves)

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
Loras Tyrell: Has your son marched against Tywin Lannister yet?
Catelyn Stark: I do not sit on my son's war councils, and if I did, I would not share his strategies with you.
Loras Tyrell: If Robb Stark wants a pact with us, he should come himself, not hide behind his mother's skirts!
Catelyn Stark: My son is fighting a war, not playing at one!

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
Renly Baratheon: I have a hundred thousand men at my command, all the might of the Stormlands and the Reach.
Catelyn Stark: And all of them young and bold like your Knight of Flowers. It's a game to you, isn't it? I pity them.
Renly Baratheon: Why?
Catelyn Stark: Because it won't last. Because they are the knights of summer and winter is coming.

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
Balon Greyjoy: What are our words? [Theon hesitates] Our words?
Theon Greyjoy: "We Do Not Sow"
Balon Greyjoy: "We Do Not Sow". We are Ironborn. We're not subjects, we're not slaves. We do not plow the fields or toil in the mines. We take what is ours. Your time with the wolves has made you weak.
Theon Greyjoy: You act as if I volunteered to go. You gave me away if you remember. The day you bend the knee to Robert Baratheon. After he crushed you. Did you take what was yours then?[Balon slaps Theon] You gave me away! Your boy! Your last boy! You gave me away like I was some dog you didn't want anymore. And now you curse me because I've come home.

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
(Tyrion, Bronn and Timmet barge into Pycelle's chambers, with a naked whore lying next to him)
Grand Maestar Pycelle: What is the meaning of this?! [Bronn drags Pycelle to his feet] No! No, please!
Tyrion Lannister: You disappoint me, Grand Maester.
Grand Maester Pycelle: I am your loyal servant.
Tyrion Lannister: So loyal that you told the queen about my plans to send Myrcella to Dorne.
Grand Maester Pycelle: No, never! It's a falsehood, I swear it. It wasn't me. (smiles) Ah, Varys! It was Varys, the Spider-
Tyrion Lannister: See, I told Varys that I was giving the princess to the Greyjoys. I told Littlefinger that I planned to wed her to Robin Arryn. I told no one that I was offering her to the Dornish. No one but you.
Grand Maester Pycelle: The eunuch has spies everywhere-
Tyrion Lannister: [to Timmet] Cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats.
Timmet: [confused] There are no goats, halfman.
Tyrion Lannnister: [exasperated] Well, make do! [To Pycelle] How long have you been spying for my sister?
Grand Maester Pycelle: All I did, I did for House Lannister. Always. Your lord father, ask him. I've always been his servant, since the days of the Mad King.
Tyrion Lannister: [shakes his head] I don't like his beard...
Grand Maester Pycelle: What? [Bronn grabs Pycelle's beard] No! [Bronn cuts off the beard] AHHH!
Tyrion Lannister: How many Hands have you betrayed, Pycelle? Eddard Stark, Jon Arryn...
Grand Maester Pycelle: Lord Arryn! He knew, he knew the truth about the- the Queen and he planned to act, to tell King Robert-
Tyrion Lannister: So you poisoned him?
Grand Maester Pycelle: [outraged] No! Never!
Tyrion Lannister: But you let him die! Made sure he succumbed!
Grand Maester Pycelle: [desperate] Lannister, I've always served Lannister...!
Tyrion Lannister: [disgusted] Get him out of my sight! Throw him in one of the black cells! [Bronn and Timett drag a protesting Pycelle out; Tyrion gives a gold coin to Pycelle's frightened whore] For your troubles. [pauses, then places another coin atop the first]

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
Varys: (after Tyrion has poured them wine) You'll be pleased to know that our mutual friend is doing quite well in Lady Sansa's service. (drinks)
Tyrion: (distractedly) Good- one of my better ideas. (drinks)
Varys: And, it seems the Grand Maester has found his way into a black cell? (Tyrion shrugs, Varys smiles) Well played, my Lord Hand. But-should I be worried? Janos Slynt, Pycelle...the Small Council grows smaller every day.
Tyrion Lannister: The Council has a reputation for serving past Hands poorly. I don't mean to follow Ned Stark to the grave.
Varys: Power is a curious thing, my lord. Are you fond of riddles?
Tyrion Lannister: Why, am I about to hear one?
Varys: Three great men sit in a room; a king, a priest and a rich man. Between them stands a common sellsword. Each great man bids the sellsword kill the other two. Who lives, who dies?
Tyrion Lannister: ...Depends on the sellsword.
Varys: Does it? He has neither crown, nor gold, nor the favour of the gods.
Tyrion Lannister: He has a sword, the power of life and death.
Varys: But if it's swordsmen who rule... why do we pretend kings hold all the power? When Ned Stark lost his head, who was truly responsible? Joffrey? The executioner? Or something else?
Tyrion Lannister: (frowns) I've decided I don't like riddles.
Varys: Power resides where men believe it resides. It's a trick, a shadow on the wall, and... a very small man can cast a very large shadow. (they both smile and drink)

  --  What Is Dead May Never Die [2.03]
%
[Tyrion storms in on Joffrey publicly tormenting Sansa, entering as Joffrey tries to have her stripped naked]
Tyrion Lannister: [furious] What is the meaning of this?! What kind of knight beats a helpless girl?!
Meryn Trant: The kind who serves his king, Imp!
Bronn: Careful now, we don't want to get blood all over your pretty white cloak!
Tyrion Lannister: Someone get the girl something to cover herself with. [Sandor Clegane gives Sansa his cloak] She's to be your Queen. Have you no regard for her honour?!
Joffrey Baratheon: I'm punishing her.
Tyrion Lannister: For what crimes?! She did not fight her brother's battle, you halfwit!
Joffrey Baratheon: You can't talk to me like that! The king can do as he likes!
Tyrion Lannister: The Mad King did as he liked. Has your uncle Jaime ever told you what happened to him?
Meryn Trant: No one threatens His Grace in the presence of the Kingsguard!
Tyrion Lannister: I'm not threatening the king, ser. I'm educating my nephew. Bronn, the next time Ser Meryn speaks, kill him. That was a threat. See the difference?

  --  Garden of Bones [2.04]
%
[At a parley between Stannis and Renly Baratheon]
Renly Baratheon: Can that truly be you?
Stannis Baratheon: Who else might it be?
Renly Baratheon: When I saw your standard, I couldn't be sure. Whose banner is that?
Stannis Baratheon: My own.
Renly Baratheon: I suppose if we use the same one, the battle will be terribly confusing. Why is your stag on fire?
Melisandre: The king has taken for his sigil the fiery heart of the Lord of Light.
Renly Baratheon: [grins] Ah, you must be this fire priestess we hear so much about. Ah brother, now I understand why you found religion in your old age!
Stannis Baratheon: Watch yourself, Renly!
Renly Baratheon: No, no, I'm relieved. I never really believed you were a fanatic; charmless, rigid, a bore, yes, but not a godly man.
Melisandre: You should kneel before your brother. He is the Lord's Chosen, born amidst salt and smoke.
Renly Baratheon: 'Born amidst salt and smoke'? Is he a ham?
Stannis Baratheon: That's twice I've warned you.
Catelyn Stark: Listen to yourselves! If you were sons of mine, I would knock your heads together and lock you in a bedchamber together until you remember you're brothers.
Stannis Baratheon: It is strange to find you beside my brother, Lady Stark. Your husband was a supporter of my claim; Lord Eddard's integrity cost him his head. And you sit beside this pretender and chastise me?!
Catelyn Stark: We share a common enemy --
Stannis Baratheon: The Iron Throne is mine by right. All those who deny that are my foes.
Renly Baratheon: The whole realm denies it, from Dorne to the Wall. Old men deny it with their death rattles and unborn children deny it in their mothers' wombs. No one wants you for their king. You never wanted any friends, brother, but a man without friends is a man without power.
Stannis Baratheon: For the sake of the mother who bore us, I will give you this one night to reconsider. Strike your banners, come to me before dawn and I will grant you your old seat on the Council. I'll even name you my heir, until a son is born to me. Otherwise I shall destroy you.
Renly Baratheon: [motions to his army] Look across those fields, brother. Can you see all those banners?
Stannis Baratheon: You think a few bolts of cloth will make you king?!
Renly Baratheon: No. The men holding those bolts of cloth will make me king!
Stannis Baratheon: We shall see, Renly. Come the dawn, we shall see! [Stannis and his retinue turn to leave]
Melisandre: Look to your sins, Lord Renly. The night is dark and full of terrors.

  --  Garden of Bones [2.04]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: Where I come from, guests are treated with respect, not insulted at the gates.
Trader of Spices: Then perhaps you should return to where you come from. We wish you well. [walks away]
Daenerys Targaryen: What are you doing? You promised to receive me!
Trader of Spices: We have received you. Here we are, and here you are.
Daenerys Targaryen: If you do not let us in, all of us will die.
Trader of Spices: Which we shall deeply regret, but Qarth did not become the greatest city that ever was or will be by letting Dothraki savages through its gates.
Ser Jorah Mormont: Khaleesi, please be careful.
Daenerys Targaryen: [enraged] Thirteen, when my dragons are grown, we will take back what was stolen from me and destroy those who have wronged me! We will lay waste to armies and burn cities to the ground! Turn us away, and we will burn you first.

  --  Garden of Bones [2.04]
%
[Tywin Lannister has just arrived at Harrenhal]
Tywin Lannister: What's this?
Gregor Clegane: We weren't expecting you till tomorrow, Lord Tywin.
Tywin Lannister: [chuckles] Evidently not. Why are these prisoners not in their cells?
Gregor Clegane: Cells are overflowing, my Lord.
Polliver: This lot won't be here long. Don't need no permanent place. After we interrogate 'em we usually just -- [gestures towards the heads on spikes]
Tywin Lannister: Are we so well-manned that we can afford to discard able young bodies and skilled laborers? [Polliver doesn't answer and Tywin turns to Gendry] You, do you have a trade?
Gendry: Smith, my Lord.
Polliver: [sees Arya staring] What are you looking at? Kneel! Kneel or I'll carve your lungs out, boy.
Tywin Lannister: You'll do no such thing. This one's a girl...you idiot! Dressed as a boy. Why?
Arya: Safer to travel, my Lord.
Tywin Lannister: Smart. More than I can say for this lot. Get these prisoners to work. Bring the girl. I need a new cupbearer.

  --  Garden of Bones [2.04]
%
Lancel Lannister: I am a Knight!
Tyrion Lannister: An anointed Knight, yes. Tell me, did Cersei have you knighted before or after she took you into her bed? [Lancel is dumbstruck] What? Nothing to say? No more warnings for me, Ser?
Lancel Lannister: You will withdraw these filthy accusations-
Tyrion Lannister: Have you ever given any thought to what King Joffrey will have to say when he finds out you have been bedding his mother?
Lancel Lannister: [goes pale] It's not my fault!
Tyrion Lannister: Did she take you against your will? Can you not defend yourself, Knight?
Lancel Lannister: Your own father, Lord Tywin, when I was named the King's squire, he told me to obey her in everything!
Tyrion Lannister: Did he tell you to fuck her, too?
Lancel Lannister: I only meant, I did as I was bid. I --
Tyrion Lannister: Hated every moment of it, is that what you'll have me believe? A high place in court, a knighthood, my sister's legs spreading open for you at night! Oh yes, it must have been terrible! Wait here, His Grace will want to hear this. [Tyrion heads to the door]
Lancel Lannister: [terrified] Mercy! Mercy, my Lord! I beg you!
Tyrion Lannister: Save it for Joffrey; he loves a good grovel!!
Lancel Lannister: My Lord, it was your sister's bidding, the Queen! I'll leave the city at once, I swear.
Tyrion Lannister: No, I think not.
Lancel Lannister: My Lord?
Tyrion Lannister: You heard me. My father told you to obey my sister. Obey her. Stay close to her side. Keep her trust. Pleasure her whenever she requires. No one ever need know as long as you keep faith with me. I want to know what Cersei is doing, where she goes, who she sees, what they talk of, everything and you will tell me.
Lancel Lannister: Yes, my lord, I will. I swear it as you command.
Tyrion Lannister: Oh rise, rise. Let us drink to our understanding. Oh, you don't have a cup. Oh, well. Smile, cousin. My sister is a beautiful woman. And it's all for the good of the realm. Go back and tell her that I beg her forgiveness, that I want no more conflict between us and that henceforth I shall do nothing without her consent.
Lancel Lannister: But, her demands...
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, I'll give her Pycelle.
Lancel Lannister: [surprised] You will?
Tyrion Lannister: Yes, I'll release him in the morning. Cersei can keep him as a pet if she wants, but I will not have him on the council. I could swear that I had not harmed a single hair on his head, but that would not, strictly speaking, be true.

  --  Garden of Bones [2.04]
%
Stannis Baratheon: What is it?
Davos Seaworth: I'm sorry about your brother, Your Grace. I wanted to let you know people grieve for him.
Stannis Baratheon: Fools love a fool. I grieve for him as well, for the boy he was, not the man he grew to be.
Davos Seaworth: I need to speak to you about what I saw in that cave...
Stannis Baratheon: I made it clear to you there'd be no need to speak of this matter! I've never known you to need to hear a thing twice.
Davos Seaworth: And I've never known you hide from the truth.
Stannis Baratheon: You come to lecture me on truth?!
Davos Seaworth: I've come to tell you what I saw-!
Stannis Baratheon: All my brother's bannermen have come to my side, except the Tyrells, who fled like cowards. They won't be able to resist us now. Soon, I'll be sitting on the Iron Throne.
Davos Seaworth: Nothing is worth what this will cost you, not even the Iron-!
Stannis Baratheon: I'll hear no more about it. [pause]
Davos Seaworth: When do we sail for King's Landing?
Stannis Baratheon: As soon as I've consolidated my troops. We'll make short work of the Lannisters' fleet; once Blackwater Bay is cleared, we'll deliver our troops to their doorstep and take the city.
Davos Seaworth: And will you bring Lady Melisandre with you?
Stannis Baratheon: That's not your concern.
Davos Seaworth: If you take King's Landing with her by your side, the victory will be hers.
Stannis Baratheon: I never thought I'd have reason to doubt your loyalty. Was I wrong?
Davos Seaworth: Loyal service means telling hard truths.
Stannis Baratheon: [snorts] Oh, truth again. Alright, what's the truth? The hard truth.
Davos Seaworth: She's a foreigner, preaching a foreign religion. Some believe she whispers orders in your ear and you obey.
Stannis Baratheon: What do you believe?
Davos Seaworth: You won those bannermen from Renly. Don't lose them to her. [pause]
Stannis Baratheon: We'll set out for King's Landing without Lady Melisandre [Davos nods]. And you'll lead the fleet into Blackwater Bay.
Davos Seaworth: Your Grace, I'm honoured but my time on the sea was spent evading ships, not attacking them. The other lords won't be happy.
Stannis Baratheon: Most of those lords should consider themselves lucky I don't hang them for treason. Hard truths cut both ways, Ser Davos.

  --  The Ghost of Harrenhal [2.05]
%
Tywin Lannister: We've underestimated the Stark boy for too long. He has a good head for warfare, his men worship him- and as long as he keeps winning battles, they'll keep believing he is King in the North! (stares angrily at his generals) You've been waiting for him to fail; he is not going to fail. Not without our help. (Arya listens from across the room) So how do we stop him?
Reginald Lannister: We've worked through the night, my Lord. Perhaps we'd profit from some sleep.
Tywin Lannister: (coldly, contemptuously) Yes, I think you would, Reginald. And, because you're my cousin, I might even let you wake form that sleep! (the other lords look away nervously) Go! I'm sure your wife must miss you.
Reginald Lannister: (confused) My wife's in Lannisport.
Tywin Lannister: Well, then you'd better start riding. (pause) Go, before I change my mind and send her your head! (Reginald gets up) If your name wasn't Lannister, you'd be scrubbing out pots in the cook's tent. Go! (Reginald leaves; Arya brings a flagon to the table) Not wine, water- we'll be here for some time. (Arya nods and starts to walk away, Tywin watches her) Girl... where are you from?
Arya Stark: (turns around) Maidenpool, My Lord.
Tywin Lannister: And who are the Lords of Maidenpool? Remind me.
Arya Stark: House Mooton, my Lord.
Tywin Lannister: And what is their sigil? (pause, Arya glances away, unable to remember) A red salmon. I think a Maidenpool girl would remember that. (Arya looks down) You're a Northerner, aren't you? (Arya nods) Good. One more time, where are you from?
Arya Stark: (confidently) Barrowton, my Lord. House Dustin. Two crossed longaxes beneath a black crown.
Tywin Lannister: (nods) And what do they say of Robb Stark in the North?
Arya Stark: [On Robb Stark] They call him 'The Young Wolf'.
Tywin Lannister: And...?
Arya Stark: They say he rides into battle on the back of a giant direwolf. They say he can turn into a wolf himself when he wants. (pause) They say he can't be killed.
Tywin Lannister: (smiles) And do you believe them?
Arya Stark: [Frowning] No, my lord. (pause) Anyone can be killed. (she and Tywin both stare at one another)
Tywin Lannister: Fetch that water.

  --  The Ghost of Harrenhal [2.05]
%
Priest: [preaching to a crowd in the street] Corruption! Yes, we are swollen, bloated, foul! Brother fornicates with sister in the bed of kings, and we're surprised when the fruit of their incest is rotten?! Yes, a rotten king!
Tyrion Lannister: It's hard to argue with his assessment.
Bronn: Not after what he did to your birthday present.
Tyrion Lannister: The king is a lost cause. It's the rest of us I'm worried about now.
Priest: A dancing king, prancing down his bloodstained halls to the tune of a twisted demon monkey! [the crowd laughes]
Tyrion Lannister: [smiling] You have to admire his imagination.
Bronn: He's talking about you.
Tyrion Lannister: [his smile fades] What? "Demon monkey"?
Bronn: People think you're pulling the King's strings. They blame you for the city's ills.
Tyrion Lannister: Blame me? I'm trying to save them.
Bronn: You don't need to convince me.
Tyrion Lannister: [deflated] Demon monkey.

  --  The Ghost of Harrenhal [2.05]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: My brother used to say the only thing the Dothraki knew how to do was steal things better men had built.
Jorah Mormont: Not the only thing. They're quite good at killing the better men.

  --  The Ghost of Harrenhal [2.05]
%
Brienne of Tarth: Once you're safely back amongst your own people, will you give me leave to go, My Lady?
Catelyn Stark: You mean to kill Stannis.
Brienne of Tarth: I swore a vow.
Catelyn Stark: But Stannis has a great army around him. His own guards are sworn to keep him safe.
Brienne of Tarth: I'm as good as any of them. I should never have fled.
Catelyn Stark: Renly's death was no fault of yours. You served him bravely.
Brienne of Tarth: I only held him that once as he was dying.
Catelyn Stark: He's gone, Brienne. You serve nothing and no one by following him into the earth. Renly's enemies are Robb's enemies as well.
Brienne of Tarth: I do not know your son, My Lady, but I could serve you if you would have me. You have courage. Not battle courage perhaps, but, I don't know, a woman's kind of courage. And I think that when the time comes, you will not hold me back. Promise me that you will not hold me back from Stannis.
Catelyn Stark: When the time comes, I will not hold you back.
Brienne of Tarth: [offers her sword to Catelyn] Then I am yours, My Lady. I will shield your back and will give my life for yours if it comes to that. I swear it by the Old Gods and the New.
Catelyn Stark: [takes Brienne's hand] I vow that you shall always have a place in my home and at my table, and that I shall ask no service of you that might bring you dishonor. I swear it by the Old Gods and the New.

  --  The Ghost of Harrenhal [2.05]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: [shouting at his guards while outnumbered by rioting peasants] What are you doing?! I want these people executed!
Sandor Clegane: And they want the same for you!

  --  The Old Gods and the New [2.06]
%
[After barely escaping a angry mob]
Joffrey Baratheon: Traitors! I'll have all their heads!
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, you blind, bloody fool!
Joffrey Baratheon: You can't insult me!
Tyrion Lannister: We've had vicious kings and we've had idiot kings, but I don't know if we've ever been cursed with a vicious idiot for a king!
Joffrey Baratheon: You can't-
Tyrion Lannister: I can, I am!
Joffrey Baratheon: They attacked me!
Tyrion Lannister: They threw a cow pie at you, so you decided to kill them all?! They're starving, you fool! All because of the war you started!
Joffrey Baratheon: You're talking to a king!
Tyrion Lannister: [slaps Joffrey] And now I've struck a king! Did my hand fall from my wrist? [to Meryn Trant] Where is the Stark girl?
Joffrey Baratheon: Let them have her!
Tyrion Lannister: If she dies, you'll never get your uncle Jaime back! You owe him quite a bit, you know.

  --  The Old Gods and the New [2.06]
%
Spice King: Look what a beauty you are now that the Red Waste has been washed of you. I am sorry about all that unpleasantness. The silver hair of a true Targaryen. Xaro Xhoan Doxas, she is far too lovely for a glorified dock worker like yourself.
Xaro Xhoan Doxas: Very true, and yet they say that your grandfather sold pepper on the back of a wagon, married a lady far lovelier and higher-born than himself.
Spice King: Every lady alive was lovelier and higher-born than my grandfather. [Daenaerys clears her throat] Did my servants not offer you anything to eat? To drink? I shall have them flogged in the square-
Daenerys Targaryen: Thank you my lord, you are a gracious host, but there is no servant alive that can bring me what I want.
Spice King: Ah, she has a talent for drama this one. So my little princess, what is it you want?
Daenerys Targaryen: My birthright; the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros.
Spice King:I fear I'm no better than a servant in this regard; I cannot give you what I do not have
Daenerys Targaryen: I'm not asking you for the Kingdoms. I'm asking you for ships. I need to cross the Narrow Sea
Spice King: I need my ships as well. I use them, you see, to bring spices from one port to another-
Daenerys Targaryen: Whatever you grant me now will be repaid three times over when I retake the Iron Throne.
Spice King: Retake? Did you once sit on the Iron Throne?
Daenerys Targaryen: My father sat there before he was murdered.
Spice King: If you did not sit on it yourself, would it not be correcter to say 'take' the Iron Throne?
Daenerys Targaryen: I did not come here to argue grammar.
Spice King: Of course not. You came to take my ships. So let me explain my position little princess. Unlike you, I do not have exulted ancestors. I make my living by trade and I judge every trade on its merits. You ask for ships. You say I will be repaid triple. I do not doubt your honesty or intentions, but before you repay your debts your must seize the Seven Kingdoms. Do you have an army?
Daenerys Targaryen: Not yet.
Spice King: You do not have an army. Do you have powerful allies in Westeros?
Daenerys Targaryen: There are many there who support my claim.
Spice King: When were you there last?
Daenerys Targaryen: I left when I was a baby.
Spice King: So in truth you have no allies.
Daenerys Targaryen: The people will rise to fight for their rightful Queen when I return.
Spice King: Ah. Forgive me little princess, but I cannot make an investment based on wishes and dreams!

  --  The Old Gods and the New [2.06]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: I am Daenerys Stormborn, of the blood of Old Valyria and I will take what is mine, with fire and blood!

  --  The Old Gods and the New [2.06]
%
[Robb Stark learns that Theon Greyjoy has betrayed him and seized Winterfell]
Robb Stark: This cannot be true.
Lord Roose Bolton: We've had ravens from White Harbour, Barrowtown and the Dreadfort, my lord. I'm afraid it is true.
Robb Stark: Why? Why would Theon-?
Roose Bolton: Because the Greyjoys are treasonous whores.
Robb Stark: My brothers?
Roose Bolton: We've heard nothing of them...but Rodrik Cassell is dead.
Catelyn Stark: [angry] I told you, never trust a Greyjoy!
Robb Stark: I must go north at once.
Roose Bolton: There's still a war to win, Your Grace-!
Robb Stark: How can I call myself 'King' if I can't hold my own castle?! How can I ask men to follow me if-?!
Roose Bolton: You are a king! And that means you don't have to do everything yourself.
Catelyn Stark: Let me go and talk to Theon-
Robb Stark: There will be no talk, he will die for this!
Roose Bolton: Theon holds the castle with a skeleton crew. Let me send word to my bastard son at the Dreadfort; he can raise a few hundred men and retake Winterfell before the new moon. We have the Lannisters on the run; if you march all the way back north now, you lose what you gained. My boy would be honoured to bring you Prince Theon's head.
Robb Stark: Tell your son Bran and Rickon's safety is paramount. And Theon...I want him brought to me alive. I want to look him in the eye and ask him 'Why?'...and then I will take his head myself!

  --  The Old Gods and the New [2.06]
%
Ygritte: You know nothing, Jon Snow.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Ser Jorah Mormont: I shouldn't have left you alone with these people.
Daenerys Targaryen: These people?
Ser Jorah Mormont: They are not to be trusted.
Daenerys Targaryen: Who is to be trusted? Who are my people? The Targaryens? I only knew one: my brother, and he would have let a thousand men rape me if it would have gotten him the crown. The Dothraki? Most of them turned on me the day that Khal Drogo fell from his horse.
Ser Jorah Mormont: Your people are in Westeros.
Daenerys Targaryen: The people in Westeros don't know I'm alive!
Ser Jorah Mormont: They will soon enough.
Daenerys Targaryen: And then what? They'll pray for my return? They'll wave dragon banners and shout my name? That's what my brother believed and he's a fool.
Ser Jorah Mormont: You are not your brother. Trust me, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: There it is: trust me. And it's you I should trust, Ser Jorah? Only you? I don't need trust any longer. I don't want it and I don't have room for it.
Ser Jorah Mormont: You are too young to be so-
Daenerys Targaryen: And you are too familiar!
Ser Jorah Mormont: Forgive me, Khaleesi. No one can survive in this world without help. No one. Let me help you, please. Tell me how.
Daenerys Targaryen: Find my dragons.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Tywin Lannister: (sniffing a poison dart that he thinks was intended for him, as prisoners are interrogated outside the castle keep) Wolfsbane- a rare substance. (to Gregor Clegane) This is no common assassin.
Gregor Clegane: We hanged twenty men last night.
Tywin Lannister: I don't care if you hanged a hundred. A man tried to kill me- I want his name, and I want his head.
Gregor Clegane: We think it was an infiltrator, from the Brotherhood Without Banners. (Arya brings food and drink)
Tywin Lannister: A pretentious name for a band of outlaws. We can't allow rebels behind our lines to harass us with impunity; we look like fools, and they look like heroes. That's how kings fall. I want them dead- every one.
Gregor Clegane: Killing them isn't the problem. (glances at Arya, who is cutting up Tywin's food) It's finding them.
Tywin Lannister: You gone soft, Clegane? I always thought you had a talent for violence. (Arya hides a kitchen knife) Burn the villages, burn the farms- let them know what it means to choose the wrong side. (Clegane leaves, Tywin turns to Arya) Is that mutton?
Arya Stark: Yes, my Lord.
Tywin Lannister: I don't like mutton.
Arya Stark:... I- I'll bring something else-
Tywin Lannister: Leave it. (walks over to the table) You hungry?
Arya Stark: (shakes her head quickly) No.
Tywin Lannister: Of course you are. (gestures to the dish of bread and mutton) Eat.
Arya Stark: I'll... eat in the kitchen, later.
Tywin Lannister: (impatiently) It's bad manners to refuse a Lord's offer. (walks around her, offers her a knife) Sit- eat. (Arya sits, takes the knife, and- after hesitating- starts eating, ravenously) You're small, for your age- I suppose you've been underfed your whole life.
Arya Stark: (with her mouth full) I eat a lot- I just don't grow.
Tywin Lannister: (nods, turns away to the window) H'm. This will be my last war- win, or loose.
Arya Stark:... Have you ever lost before?
Tywin Lannister: (gives her a sharp look over his shoulder) Do you think I'd be in my position if I'd lost a war? (he raises an eyebrow, Arya shakes her head and shrugs; Tywin turns back to the window) This is the one I'll be remembered for- the War of Five Kings, they're calling it. (Arya glances at the back of Tywin's neck; her grip on the knife tightens as she contemplates killing him) My legacy will be determined in the coming months (he turns around, Arya quickly relaxes her grip; the danger moment is passed) Do you know what legacy means? (Arya shakes her head) It's what you pass down to your children- and to your children's children. It's what remains of you, after you're gone. (gestures at the vast chamber around them) Harren the Black thought this castle would be his legacy. The greatest fortress ever built- the tallest towers, the strongest walls. (walks over to the shattered fireplace) The Great Hall had thirty-five hearths. Thirty- five, can you imagine? (pause) Look at it now- a blasted ruin. Do you know what happened?
Arya Stark: (smiles eagerly)...Dragons?
Tywin Lannister: (smiles ruefully at her) Yes... Dragons happened. (sits down across from her and pours himself a drink) Harrenhall was built to withstand an attack from the land. A million men could have marched on these walls, and a million men would have been repelled. But, an attack from the air, with dragonfire- (shakes his head) Harren and all his sons roasted alive within these walls. Aegon Targaryen changed the rules- that's why every child alive knows his name, three hundred years after his death. (takes a drink)
Arya Stark: Aegon... and his sisters.
Tywin Lannister: (sets down his goblet) Hmm?
Arya Stark: It wasn't just Aegon riding his dragon. It was Raenys and Visenya, too.
Tywin Lannister: (looks at her curiously) Correct!....Student of history, are you?
Arya Stark: (not realizing she has nearly exposed her identity) Raenys rode Baraxis, Visenya rode Vaegar.
Tywin Lannister: (shrugs, takes a drink) I'm sure I knew that, when I was a boy.
Arya Stark: Visenya Targaryen was a great warrior. She had a Valyrian steel sword she called "Dark Sister".
Tywin Lannister: (smiles knowingly) Hmm- she's a heroine of yours, I take it? (pause) Aren't most girls more interested in the pretty maids in the songs- Jonquil, with flowers in their hair?
Arya Stark: (contemptuously) Most girls are idiots.
Tywin Lannister: (amused) Hah! You remind me of my daughter. (frowns at her curiously again, leans forward) Where did you learn all this stuff about Visenya and her Valyrian steel sword?
Arya Stark: (realizing the danger, but secretly answering truthfully)... From my father.
Tywin Lannister: (raises an eyebrow skeptically) He was a well-read stone-mason...(shrugs, leans back and takes a drink) Can't say I've ever met a literate stone-mason.
Arya Stark:(sarcastically) ...Have you met many stone-masons, my Lord?
Tywin ( lowers his cup, smiles coldly) ...Careful now, girl. I enjoy you, but be careful. (gestures at her half-empty plate of food) Take that back to the kitchen- eat what you want. (Arya nods, collects her dishes and starts toward the door) And girl- "Milord". (Arya turns and frowns at him, confused) Low-born girls say "Milord", not "my Lord". If you're going to pose as a commoner, you should do it properly.
Arya Stark: (defiantly) My mother served Lady Dustin for many years, my Lord. She taught me how to speak proper- properly.
Tywin Lannister: (smiles admiringly) You're too smart for your own good- has anyone told you that?
Arya Stark: (smiles) Yes.
Tywin Lannister: Go on. (Arya leaves, Tywin smiles to himself)

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Cercei: [to Sansa] Permit me to share some womanly wisdom with you on this very special day. The more people you love, the weaker you are. You do things for them that you know you shouldn't do, you'll act the fool to make them happy, to keep them safe. Love no one but your children. On that front, a mother has no choice.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Pyat Pree: [to The Thirteen] The Mother of Dragons will be with her babies. She will give them her love and they will thrive by her side. Forever. [The Thirteen have their throats cut by multiple Prees] A mother should be with her children. Where will you run to, Daenerys Stormborn? Your dragons wait for you in the House of the Undying. Come see them.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Tyrion Lannister: It's just you, me and Joffrey, the "Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm".
Cersei Lannister: I'm sure you'll make a point eventually.
Tyrion Lannister: He needs to start acting like a king! This war you started is coming to our doorstep and if the entire city wants Joffrey dead...
Cersei Lannister: I'm not the one giving the boy whores to abuse!
Tyrion Lannister: I thought the girls might help him.
Cersei Lannister: Did you?!
Tyrion Lannister: I was wrong! If we can't control him-
Cersei Lannister: Do you think I haven't tried?! He doesn't listen to me!
Tyrion Lannister:[nodding] It's hard to put a leash on a dog once you've put a crown on its head.
Cersei Lannister: I always hoped he'd be like Jaime. He looks like him, in a certain light.
Tyrion Lannister: The boy's more Robert than Jaime.
Cersei Lannister: Robert was a drunken fool, but he didn't enjoy cruelty. Sometimes, I wonder-
Tyrion Lannister: What?
Cersei Lannister: If this is the price for what we've done. For our sins.
Tyrion Lannister: Sins? The Targaryens-
Cersei Lannister: Wed brother and sister for hundreds of years, I know. It's what Jaime and I would say to each other in our moments of doubt. It's what I told Ned Stark when he was stupid enough to confront me. Half the Targaryens went mad, didn't they? What's the saying? "Every time a Targaryen is born, the gods flip a coin."
Tyrion Lannister: [awkwardly] You've beaten the odds. Tommen and Myrcella are good, decent children, both of them.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Jaime Lannister: Come to say goodbye, Lady Stark? I believe it's my last night in this world. [looks at Brienne] Is that a woman?
Catelyn Stark: Do you hear them out there? They want your head.
Jaime Lannister: Well, old Lord Karstark doesn't seem to like me.
Catelyn Stark: You strangled his son with your chains.
Jaime Lannister: Oh, oh. Was he the one on guard duty? He was in my way. Any knight would have done the same.
Catelyn Stark: You are no knight. You have forsaken every vow you ever took.
Jaime Lannister: So many vows. They make you swear and swear. Defend the King, obey the King, obey your father, protect the innocent, defend the weak. But what if your father despises the King? What if the King massacres the innocent? It's too much. No matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or another. [indicating Brienne] Where did you find this beast?
Catelyn Stark: She is a truer knight than you will ever be, Kingslayer.
Jaime Lannister: Kingslayer. And what a king he was! Here's to Aerys Targaryen, the second of his name, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Protector of the Realm, and to the sword I shoved in his back!
Catelyn Stark: You are a man without honor.
Jaime Lannister: Do you know I've never been with any woman but Cersei? So in my own way, I have more honor than poor old dead Ned. What was the name of the bastard he fathered?
Catelyn Stark: Brienne.
Jaime Lannister: No, that wasn't it. Snow, a bastard from the North. Now when- when good old Ned came home with some whore's baby, did you pretend to love it? No. You're not very good at pretending. You're an honest woman. You hated that boy, didn't you? How could you not hate him? The walking, talking reminder that the honorable Lord Eddard Stark fucked another woman.
Catelyn Stark: [to Brienne] Your sword.

  --  A Man Without Honor [2.07]
%
Theon Greyjoy: You should be proud of your brother's achievement. I took the great castle of Winterfell with 20 men.
Yara Greyjoy: You're a great warrior. I saw the bodies above your gates. Which one gave you the tougher fight, the cripple or the six-year-old?
Theon Greyjoy: I treated the Stark boys with honor and they repaid me with treachery.
Yara Greyjoy: You treated them with honor by butchering them?
Theon Greyjoy: Before I had to kill them, I treated them-
Yara Greyjoy: You seized their home, as is your right. We're Ironborn; we take what we need.
Theon Greyjoy: Exactly.
Yara Greyjoy: Then you made them prisoners in their home and they ran away. Is that treachery? I'd call it bravery.
Theon Greyjoy: They made me a promise-
Yara Greyjoy: Your little boy prisoners made you a promise and you got mad when they broke it? Are you the dumbest cunt alive?
Theon Greyjoy: Don't call me a-
Yara Greyjoy: A cunt. A dumb cunt who killed the only two Starks in Winterfell. You know how valuable those boys were?
Theon Greyjoy: If I hadn't killed them, the Northerners would think me weak.
Yara Greyjoy: You are weak. And you're stupid.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
[After Jaqen has stated he cannot kill Tywin Lannister in time]
Arya Stark: You promised you'd help me.
Jaqen H'ghar: Help was not promised, lovely girl. Only death. There must be others. Give a name, any name.
Arya Stark: And you'll kill them? Anybody?
Jaqen H'ghar: By the Seven New Gods and the Old Gods beyond counting, I swear it.
Arya Stark: Alright. Jaqen H'ghar.
Jaqen H'ghar: A girl gives a man his own name?
Arya Stark: That's right.
Jaqen H'ghar: Gods are not mocked. This is no joking thing.
Arya Stark: I'm not joking. A man can go kill himself.
Jaqen H'ghar: Un-name me.
Arya Stark: No.
Jaqen H'ghar: Please?
Arya Stark: I'll unname you.
Jaqen H'ghar: Thank you.
Arya Stark: If you help me and my friends escape.
Jaqen H'ghar: This would require more than one life. This is not part of our bargain.
Arya Stark: Fine, Jaqen H'ghar.
Jaqen H'ghar: A girl lacks honor. [Arya shrugs] If I do this thing, a girl must obey.
Arya Stark: A girl will obey.
Jaqen H'ghar: A girl and her friends will walk through the gate at midnight.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
Davos Seaworth: I understand why the older families look down at me.
Stannis Baratheon: Do you? Why?
Davos Seaworth: My father was a crabber.
Stannis Baratheon: And?
Davos Seaworth: Sons of lords don't like to break bread with sons of crabbers; our hands stink.
Stannis Baratheon: And where were those lords when Storm's End starved?!
Davos Seaworth: Many fought bravely for your brother. Many fought for the Mad King.
Stannis Baratheon: You defend these men who insult you behind your back.
Davos Seaworth: Some are happy to do it to my face.
Stannis Baratheon: [angry] We were forgotten. Robert and Ned Stark, they were the heroes, the glorious rebels. Marching from battle to battle, liberating towns from the yoke of the Mad King while I held Storm's End with 500 men.
Davos Seaworth: No one's forgotten, your Grace.
Stannis Baratheon: No? Robert did. He gave Storm's End to Renly after the war. Renly never fought a day in his life!
Davos Seaworth: He was only a boy.
Stannis Baratheon: Then why give him Storm's End? [pause] First, we ate the horses. We weren't riding anywhere, not with the castle surrounded. We couldn't feed them, so fine. The horses, then the cats-I've never liked cats, so fine. I do like dogs - good animals, loyal - but we ate them too. Then the rats... The night before you slipped through, I thought my wife was dying. She couldn't speak anymore, she was so frail. And then you made it through the lines, slipped right through in your little black sail boat with your onions...
Davos Seaworth: And some potatoes. Some salted beef, I believe.
Stannis Baratheon: Every man at Storm's End wanted to kiss you that night.
Davos Seaworth: [smiles] I was relieved they did not.
Stannis Baratheon: Robert told me to hold Storm's End, so I held it. Then he told me he was giving it to Renly, so I gave it up. Insult or no, I gave it up because Robert was my older brother and he was the king and I've always done my duty. But now, I am the rightful king by every law of Westeros. And when I sit the Iron Throne, you will be my Hand.
Davos Seaworth: Your Grace...[he kneels] I pray I serve you well.
Stannis Baratheon: I expect you'll be the first crabber's son to wear the badge.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
Cersei Lannister: [quiet and angry] Do you think I'm an idiot?!
Tyrion Lannister: I'd say you possess above average intelligence...
Cersei Lannister: You shipped off my only daughter. Now you want to send my eldest son to the battlefield to die.
Tyrion Lannister: He'll have his Kingsguard protecting him, he has the finest armour gold can buy; he needs to be out there. The men will fight more fiercely seeing their King fighting beside them, instead of hiding behind his mother's skirts.
Cersei Lannister: Do you know why Varys is so dangerous?
Tyrion Lannister: Because he has thousands of spies in his employ? Because he knows everything we do before we do it?
Cersei Lannister: Because he doesn't have a cock.
Tyrion Lannister: Neither do you.
Cersei Lannister: Perhaps I'm dangerous, too. You, on the other hand, are as big a fool as every other man. That little worm between your legs does half your thinking for you.
Tyrion Lannister: It's not that little. [Cersei laughes humourlessly] Why are you laughing?
Cersei Lannister: Because I'm happy!
Tyrion Lannister: [suspicious] And why are you happy?
Cersei Lannister: Because I have your little whore.
Tyrion Lannister: [disconcerted, then sarcastic] I thought you preferred blondes.
Cersei Lannister: Such a droll little fellow. Tell me, have you married this one yet? No? Good, Father will be so pleased!
Tyrion Lannister: Why do you care who I fuck?
Cersei Lannister: Because a Lannister always pays her debts. You stole my daughter, you plot to have Joffrey killed-
Tyrion Lannister: This is madness. Stannis will be here in days, you need me.
Cersei Lannister: For what?! Your skill in battle?! Pretty thing, your whore. Lovely body; the bruises will heal in time...
Tyrion Lannister: Where did you find her?
Cersei Lannister: Varys isn't the only one who hears whispers. Really, a Lannister lion necklace? You need to hide your secret whores more carefully.
Tyrion Lannister: You've forgotten the most important thing about whores...
Cersei Lannister: Oh? Well, you're the expert, tell me.
Tyrion Lannister: You don't buy them, you only rent them.
Cersei Lannister: You're usually a better liar, baby brother. This one you like. You like her very much... [mocking] Could it be love? Don't worry, she'll be treated gently enough... unless Joffrey is hurt, and then every wound he suffers, she'll suffer too. And if he dies, there isn't a man alive who could advise a more painful death for your little cunt.
Tyrion Lannister: [struggling to hold back his anger] And how do I know you haven't killed her already?
Cersei Lannister: You'd like to see her? I thought you might. [to the guard] Ser Mandon, bring in my brother's whore. [Two Kingsguard knights drag in a beaten Ros]
Tyrion Lannister: [to Ros] I'm sorry they hurt you. You must be brave. I promise, I will free you.
Ros: Don't forget me.
Tyrion Lannister: Never. [the knights drag her out. Tyrion turns to face a grinning Cersei] I will hurt you for this. A day will come when you think you are safe and happy and your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth... and you will know the debt is paid. [Cersei's grin falters]
Cersei: Get out.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: You're the Master of Whisperers. You're supposed to know everything.
Varys: No man can be in all rooms at all times. I have many little birds in the North, My Lord, but I haven't heard their songs since Theon Greyojoy captured Winterfell.
Joffrey Baratheon: The Stark forces are distracted. Now is the time to strike.
Tyrion Lannister: To strike? My dear nephew, you do see these men preparing the walls for siege? You do understand Stannis Baratheon sails this way?
Joffrey Baratheon: If my uncle Stannis lands on the shores of King's Landing, I'll ride out to greet him.
Tyrion Lannister: A brave choice, Your Grace. I'm sure your men will line up behind you.
Joffrey Baratheon: They say Stannis never smiles. [unsheathes his dagger] I'll give him a red smile, from ear to ear.
(Joffrey walks away, Tyrion and Varys look at each other in amusement)
Tyrion Lannister: Imagine Stannis's terror.
Varys: (deadpan) I am trying. (they observe the fortifications)
Tyrion Lannister: You're an intelligent man. I'd like to think I'm an intelligent man.
Varys: Oh, no-one disputes that, my Lord... not even the multitudes who despise you.
Tyrion Lannister: (deadpan) I wish we could converse as two honest, intelligent men.
Varys: ( glances at him, equally deadpan) I wish we could, too. (pause, Tyrion stares at him)
Tyrion Lannister: What do you want? (Varys looks him in the eye) Tell me.
Varys: If we're going to play, you'll have to start. (Tyrion shrugs, they both walk over to the edge of the battlements)
Tyrion Lannister: My brother was the youngest Kingsguard in history. My sister became Queen at the age of nineteen. When I reached manhood... my father put me in charge of all the drains and cisterns in Casterly Rock.
Varys: A most high-born plumber.
Tyrion Lannister: The water never flowed better, and all the shit found its way to the sea. I never expected to have any real power, so when my father named me acting Hand-
Varys: You're quite good at being Hand, you know. Jon Arryn and Ned Stark were good men- honorable men- but they disdained the Game and those who played. You... enjoy the Game.
Tyrion Lannister: I do. Last thing I expected.
Varys: And you play it well.
Tyrion: I'd like to keep playing it. (they both look out over Blackwater Bay) But if Stannis breaches the gates, the Game is over.
Varys: They say he burns his enemies alive, to honor the Lord of Light.
Tyrion Lannister: The Lord of Light wants his enemies burned. The Drowned God wants them drowned. Why are all the gods such vicious cunts? Where is the god of tits and wine?
Varys: In the Summer Isles, they worship a fertility goddess with sixteen teats.
Tyrion Lannister: We should sail there immediately. (Varys looks around, then leans close to Tyrion)
Varys: This morning, I heard a song- all the way from Qarth, beyond the Red Waste. (Tyrion glances at him) Daenerys Targaryen lives.
Tyrion Lannister: A girl at the edge of the world is the least of our problems.
Varys: She has three dragons... but, even if what they say is true, it'll be years before they are fully grown... and then there will be nowhere to hide.
Tyrion Lannister: One Game at a time, my friend.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
Ser Jorah Mormont: Careful, Khaleesi. Xaro owns this city and the warlocks have a thousand eyes watching for you. I found one. A ship with a good captain. She leaves for Astapor tomorrow.
Daenerys Targaryen: Astapor?
Ser Jorah Mormont: We cannot stay here.
Daenerys Targaryen: They have my dragons! A mother does not flee without her children.
Ser Jorah Mormont: They're not your children. I know they call you the Mother of Dragons, and I know you love them, but you did not grow them in your womb. They did not suckle at your breast. They are dragons, Khaleesi, and if we stay in Qarth we'll die.
Daenerys Targaryen: You should sail to Astapor. I'm sure you'll be safe there. [turns and walks away]
Ser Jorah Mormont: You know I would die for you. I will never abandon you. I'm sworn to protect you. To serve.
Daenerys Targaryen: Then serve me! If my dragons are in the House of the Undying, then take me there.
Ser Jorah Mormont: That's what the warlock wants. He told you so himself! If you enter that place you will never leave again. His magic is strong.
Daenerys Targaryen: And what of my magic? You saw me step into the fire. You watched the witch burn, and what did the flames do to me? Do you remember?
Ser Jorah Mormont: Until my last breath I will remember. After I have forgotten my mother's face.
Daenerys Targaryen: [strokes Jorah's face] They are my children, and they are the only children I will ever have. Take me to them.

  --  The Prince of Winterfell [2.08]
%
[As they approach King's Landing]
Matthos Seaworth: You're coming home
Davos Seasworth: King's Landing hasn't been home for 20 years. I spent most of my life dodging the Royal Fleet. And now I'm sailing right at them.
Matthos Seasworth: This is the Royal Fleet. And you're not a smuggler anymore, you're the High Captain.
Davos Seasworth: Of course there are several Royal Fleets at the moment.
Matthos Seasworth: Not after tonight. When the sun rises, Stannis will sit on the Iron Throne and you will be his Hand.
Davos Seasworth: Gods be good.
Matthos Seasworth: God. Father, there is only one and he watches over us.
Davos Seasworth: But not over them?
Matthos Seasworth: Over all of us. The people of King's Landing did not choose the false King Joffrey Baratheon. They will be glad to see his head on a spike.
Davos Seasworth: Well, first we have to put it there.
Matthos Seasworth: Our ships outnumber theirs ten to one. Our army outnumber theirs five to one.
Davos Seasworth: Those walls have never been breached. And the men guarding the walls, when they see you, they don't see a liberator. They see a stranger come to set their city on fire.
Matthos Seasworth: I have faith in the Lord of Light. I have faith in our cause. And I have faith in my captain.

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Varys: (staring out of the window of the Tower of the Hand, listening to the bells tolling in alarm) I have always hated the bells. They ring for horror- a dead king, a city under siege-
Tyrion Lannister: (being fitted into his armor by Podrick Payne) A wedding?
Varys: Exactly... Podrick, is that it?
Tyrion Lannister: (mockingly) "Is that it?" Nice touch. As if you don't know the name of every boy in town.
Varys: I'm not entirely sure what you're suggesting...
Tyrion Lannister: (grins) I'm entirely sure you're entirely sure what I'm suggesting.
Varys: Do you trust him? (Pod looks at Tyrion nervously, then goes back to his work)
Tyrion Lannister: (glances at Pod) Oddly enough, I do.
Varys: Good. (comes over, spreads a map of the King's Landing underground on the table) The map you asked for.
Tyrion Lannkster: (studies it) There must be twenty miles of tunnels beneath this city.
Varys: Closer to fifty. The Targaryens built this city to withstand a siege... and to provide escape, if necessary. (looks inquiringly at Tyrion)
Tyrion Lannister: (shortly) I'm not escaping. Strange as it sounds, I'm the captain of this ship, and if the ship goes down, I go with it.
Varys: (smiles and nods) That is good to hear- though I'm sure many captains say the same, while their ship is afloat. (Podrick finishes buckling on Tyrion's arm-guards) You look well-suited for battle, my Lord.
Tyrion Lannister: Well, I'm not.
Varys: (grimly)...For all our sakes, I hope you are wrong. (Tyrion looks at him) My little birds tell me that Stannis Baratheon has taken up with a Red Priestess from Asshai.
Tyrion Lannister: What of it?
Varys: You don't believe in the old powers, my Lord?
Tyrion Lannister: Blood spells, curses, shape-shifting? What do you think?
Varys: (pause) I think you believe in what you see... and in what those you trust have seen. (smiles) You probably don't entirely trust me-
Tyrion Lannister: Well, don't take it personally- I don't entirely trust myself.
Varys: (softly)... And yet, I have seen things, and heard things. Things you have not, things... I wish I had not. (Tyrion stares at him for a moment; for the first time ever, Varys seems frightened)... I don't believe I've ever told you how I was cut. (Podrick gives him a frightened look)
Tyrion Lannister: No, I don't believe you have.
Varys: (pause) One day, I will. (pause) The dark arts have provided Lord Stannis with his armies, and paved his path to our door. For a man, in service to such powers, to sit on the Iron Throne- I can think of nothing worse. And, tonight... I believe you are the only man who can stop him. (Tyrion frowns thoughtfully, then grasps the battleaxe offered to him by Pod)

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Matthos Seaworth: (listening to the bells of King's Landing tolling the alarm) They're welcoming their new King!
Davos Seaworth: (darkly) I've never known bells to mean surrender. (walks to the forecastle of his ship) They want to play music with us, let's play. The drums.
Matthos Seaworth: (to the sailors) DRUMS! (Stannis' fleet begin to play a menacing drumbeat)

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
[The Baratheon fleet approaches King's Landing unopposed]
Davos Seaworth: (alarmed) Where are their ships?
Matthos Seaworth: It is wise to attack at night; We took them by surprise.
Davos Seaworth: Lord Varys knows what you had for breakfast three days ago. There are no surprises here.
Matthos Seaworth: Is it true that there's dissension in their ranks? Maybe their sailors have mutinied.
Davos Seaworth: Maybe...

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Lancel Lannister: Where's our fleet?!
Tyrion Lannister: On their way.
Joffrey Baratheon: Why isn't it here now?! They're coming! [Tyrion ignores him] Hound, tell the Hand that his King has asked him a question.
Sandor Clegane: (sighs) The King has asked you a question.
Tyrion Lannister: Ser Lancel, tell the Hound to tell the King that the Hand is extremely busy.
Lancel Lannister: [to Sandor] The Hand would like me to tell you, to tell the King-
Joffrey Baratheon: If I tell the Hound to cut you in half, he'll do it without a second thought.
Tyrion Lannister: That would make me the "Quarter Man"; just doesn't have the same ring to it. Cut me in half and I won't be able to give the signal. No signal, no plan. No plan and Stannis Baratheon sacks this city, takes the Iron Throne, puts your pinched little head atop a gate somewhere. It might be quite amusing, except my head would be up there too! I've never much liked my head, but I don't want to see it removed just yet.

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Stannos Baratheon: (after Tyrion has obliterated a large portion of his fleet with a massive wildfire explosion) Prepare to land! (moves to the forecastle of his ship)
1st Baratheon soldier: (stunned) Your Grace? The wildfire-
Stannis Baratheon: The dwarf has played his little trick- he can only play it once. (pulls off his cloak, stands at the rail, ready to land and attack)
2nd Baratheon soldier: We're too far from the gates. The fire- their archers- hundreds will die!
Stannis Baratheon: (grimly) Thousands. (to his men) Come with me and take this city! (his men cheer)

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Sandor Clegane: [leading Lannister troops into battle] If any man dies with a clean sword, I'LL RAPE HIS FUCKING CORPSE!

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [quietly, to himself] I'll lead the attack. [rallying his troops] I'll lead the attack! Pod, my helmet. Ser Mandon, you will bear the King's banner. Men, form up! Men! Men! They say I'm half a man, but what does that make the lot of you?!
Lannister Soldier: The only way out is through the gates, and they're at the gates!
Tyrion Lannister: There's another way out; I'm going to show you. We'll come out behind them and fuck them in their arses! [the men laugh] Don't fight for your king and don't fight for his kingdoms! Don't fight for honour, don't fight for glory, don't fight for riches, because you won't get any! This is your city Stannis means to sack, that's your gate he's ramming! If he gets in, it'll be your houses he burns, your gold he steals, your women he'll rape. Those are brave men knocking at our door. Let's go kill them! [the men cheer]

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Sandor Clegane: The lady's starting to panic.
Sansa Stark: [starts in surprise] What are you doing here?
Sandor Clegane: Not here long. I'm going.
Sansa Stark: Where?
Sandor Clegane: Someplace that isn't burning. North, might be. Could be.
Sansa Stark: What about the King?
Sandor Clegane: He can die just fine on his own. I can take you with me. Take you to Winterfell. I'll keep you safe. Do you want to go home?
Sansa Stark: I'll be safe here. Stannis won't hurt me.
Sandor Clegane: [steps in close, frightening Sansa] Look at me. Stannis is a killer. The Lannisters are killers. Your father was a killer. Your brother is a killer. Your sons will be killers someday. The world is built by killers. So you'd better get used to looking at them.
Sansa Stark: You won't hurt me.
Sandor Clegane: No, little bird, I won't hurt you.

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Cersei Lannister: (believing the battle is lost) Shh. Calm, my sweet.
Tommen Baratheon: They're still fighting.
Cersei Lannister: No one's going to hurt you. I'll tell you a story. You know the one about the mother lion and her little cub; they lived in the woods.
Tommen Baratheon: The Kingswood.
Cersei Lannister: Yes, my love. In the Kingswood lived a mother and her cub. She loved him very much, but there were other things that lived in the woods. Evil things.
Tommen Baratheon: Like what?
Cersei Lannister: Like stags.
Tommen Baratheon: Stags aren't evil. They only eat grass.
Cersei Lannister: And wolves. They could hear them crying in the night, and the cub was frightened. His mother said, you are a lion, my son. You mustn't be afraid, for one day all the beasts will bow to you. You will be king. All the stags will bow, all the wolves will bow, the bears in the north and the foxes of the south, all the birds in the sky and the beasts in the sea. They will all come to you, little lion, to rest a crown upon your head. And the cub said, will I be strong and fierce like my father? Yes, said his mother. You will be strong and fierce, just like your father. (takes out a bottle of poison) I will keep you safe, my love. (brings the poison to Tommen's lips) I promise you. (seconds before Tommen drinks the poison, Lannister and Tyrell soldiers burst into the throne room, along with Tywin Lannister and Loras Tyrell) Father! (drops the poison)
Tywin Lannister: The battle is over; We have won!

  --  Blackwater [2.09]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: I, Joffrey of the House Baratheon, First of My Name, the rightful king of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm, do hereby proclaim my grandfather Tywin Lannnister the savior of the city and the Hand of the King.
Tywin Lannister: Thank you, Your Grace.
Joffrey Baratheon: Lord Petyr Baelish, step forward. For your good service and ingenuity in uniting the Houses of Lannister and Tyrell, I declare you shall be granted the castle of Harrenhal with all its attendant lands and incomes to be held by your sons and grandsons from this day until the end of time.
Petyr Baelish: You honor me beyond words, Your Grace. I shall have to acquire some sons and grandsons.
Joffrey Baratheon: Ser Loras Tyrell. Your House has come to our aid. The whole realm is in your debt, none more so than I. If your family would ask anything of me, ask it and it shall be yours.
Loras Tyrell: Your Grace, my sister Margaery, her husband was taken from us before... She remains innocent. I would ask you to find it in your heart to do us the great honor of joining our Houses.
Joffrey Baratheon: Is this what you want, Lady Margaery?
Margaery Tyrell: With all my heart, Your Grace. I have come to love you from afar. Tales of your courage and wisdom have never been far from my ears. And those tales have taken root deep inside of me.
Joffrey Baratheon: Well, I too have heard tales of your beauty and grace, but the tales, do not do you justice, My Lady. It would be an honor to return your love, but I am promised to another. A King must keep his word.
Cersei Lannister: Your Grace, in the judgment of your Small Council, it would neither be proper nor wise for you to wed the daughter of a man beheaded for treason, a girl whose brother is in open rebellion against the throne as we speak. For the good of the realm, your councilors beg you to set Sansa Stark aside.
Joffrey Baratheon: I would like to heed your wishes and the wishes of my people, but I took a holy vow.
Grand Maester Pycelle: Your Grace, the Gods do indeed hold betrothal solemn, but your father, blessed be his memory, made this pact before the Starks revealed their falseness. I have consulted with the High Septon and he assures me that their crimes against the realm free you from any promise you have made to them in the sight of the Gods.
Joffrey Baratheon: The Gods are good. I am freed to heed my heart. Ser Loras, I will gladly wed your sweet sister. [to Margaery] You will be my Queen and I will love you from this day until my last day.

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
Tyrion Lannister: (wakes up injured after the Blackwater and finds Pycelle looming over him, menacingly) ...Pod... POD! (Podrick bursts into the room) Find Bronn, or Varys. Tell them I am here with Maester Pycelle. Tell them... I am very much alive.
Pycelle: (gloatingly) Would you like something for the pain (reaches for Tyrion's bandaged face, Tyrion swats his hand away, glaring at him)
Tyrion Lannister:...What happened?
Pycelle: (mockingly) The murderer and traitor, Stannis Baratheon, suffered a stunning defeat at the hands of your father.
Tyrion Lannister: (glances around the small, poorly furnished room)... Where am I?
Pycelle:... These are your new chambers. (smirks vengefully) A little cramped, perhaps, but you don't need much room, do you? (pause) You are no longer Hand of the King. (starts to shuffle off, then turns and tosses Tyrion a single gold coin) For your troubles. (leaves)

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: [while experiencing a vision, enters a Dothraki hut to find Khal Drogo and their son]
Khal Drogo: Moon of my life.
Daenerys Targaryen: This is dark magic, like the magic that took you from me. Took you from me before I could even...Maybe I am dead and I just don't know it yet. Maybe I am with you in the Night Lands.
Khal Drogo: Or maybe I refused to enter the Night Lands without you. Maybe I told the Great Stallion to go fuck himself and came back here to wait for you.
Daenerys Targaryen: [smiles tearfully] That sounds like something you would do.
Khal Drogo: Or maybe it is a dream. Your dream. My dream. I do not know. These are questions for wise men with skinny arms. You are the moon of my life. That is all I know and all I need to know. And if this is a dream, I will kill the man who tries to wake me.
Daenerys Targaryen: Until the sun rises in the west and sets in the east, until the rivers run dry and the mountains blow in the wind like leaves.

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
Pyat Pree: They miss their mother. They want to be with you. Do you want to be with them? You will be. When your dragons were born our magic was born again. It is strongest in their presence, and they are strongest in yours. You will be with them through winter, summer and winter again. Just a thousand, thousand seasons you will be with them, and we will be with you until time comes to and end. Welcome home, Daenerys Stormborn.
Daenerys Targaryen: This is not my home. My home is across the sea where my people are waiting for me.
Pyat Pree: They will be waiting a long time.

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
Stannis Baratheon: You said you saw my victory in the flames.
Melisandre: I did. I still see it.
Stannis Baratheon: The flames lied. And I'm no better than a savage, trusting in a fire god! I fought for your god in Blackwater Bay. I led my men to the gates of the Seventh Hell as their brothers burned alive and for what?! An attack from behind by Tywin Lannister and the Tyrells?! If you see so much in your flames, why didn't you warn me?!
Melisandre: The Lord of Light only allows me glimpses-!
Stannis Baratheon: You claim to speak for a god!
Melisandre: Will you quit the war just because you've lost a battle?
Stannis Baratheon: You talk about war as if you understand it.
Melisandre: I've been fighting far longer than you.
Stannis Baratheon: Have you? Show me how you fight! [Stannis seizes Melisandre by the throat and starts throttling her] Show me! Where is your god now? Will he save you? [Melisandre stops struggling] Where is your god?!
Melisandre: Inside you. [stunned, Stannis releases her]
Stannis Baratheon: [horrified] I murdered my brother!
Melisandre: We murdered him. Share the weight with me.
Stannis Baratheon: He wasn't your brother.
Melisandre: This war has just begun. It will last for years. Thousands will die at your command. You will betray the men serving you, you will betray your family, you will betray everything you once held dear...and it will all be worth it, because you are the Son of Fire, you are the Warrior of Light. You will sweep aside this pretender and that one; you will be king.

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
[Theon Greyjoy rallies his men for battle. A horn blows outside Winterfell]
Theon Greyjoy: You hear that? That's the mating call of the Northmen. They want to fuck us! Well, I haven't had a good fuck in weeks, I'm ready for one! [his men laugh] They say every Ironborn man is worth a dozen from the mainland. You think they're right?!
Black Lorren: Aye.
Theon Greyjoy: We die today, brothers. We die bleeding from a hundred wounds, with arrows in our necks and spears in our guts...but our war cries will echo through eternity! They will sing about the Battle of Winterfell until the Iron Islands have slipped beneath the waves! Every man, woman and child will know who we were and how long we stood! Aggar and Gelmar, Wex and Urzen, Stygg and Black Lorren! Ironborn warriors will cry out our names as they leap onto the shores of Seagard and Faircastle.
Ironborn: Aye!
Theon Greyjoy: Mothers will name their sons for us!
Ironborn: Aye!
Theon Greyjoy: Girls will think of us with us with their lovers inside them!
Ironborn: Aye! [the horn blows again]
Theon Greyjoy: And whoever kills that fucking horn blower will stand in bronze above the shores of Pyke!
Ironborn: Aye!
Theon Greyjoy: WHAT IS DEAD MAY NEVER DIE!
Ironborn: What is dead may never die! [As Theon screams a war cry, Dagmer hits him over the head with a spear, knocking him out]
Black Lorren: Thought he'd never shut up.
Dagmer Cleftjaw: It was a good speech. Didn't want to interrupt.

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
[After Xaro's deceit is revealed]
Jorah Mormont: It's all a lie.
Daenerys Targaryen: Looks real enough to me. [takes a golden bowl] Real enough to buy a ship?
Jorah Mormont: Aye, a small ship. [to the Dothraki] Take all the gold and jewels!

  --  Valar Morghulis [2.10]
%
Tyrion Lannister: The badge looks good on you. Almost as good as it looked on me. [Tywin doesn't answer] Are you enjoying your new position?
Tywin Lannister: Am I enjoying it?
Tyrion Lannister: I was very happy as Hand of the King.
Tywin Lannister: Yes. I heard how happy you were. You brought a whore into my bed.
Tyrion Lannister: It wasn't your bed at the time.
Tywin Lannister: I sent you here to advise the king. I gave you real power and authority. You chose to spend your days as you always have, bedding harlots and drinking with thieves.
Tyrion Lannister: Occasionally I drank with the harlots.
Tywin Lannister: What do you want, Tyrion?
Tyrion Lannister: Why does everyone assume I want something? Can't I simply visit with my beloved father? My beloved father who somehow forgot to visit his wounded son after he fell on the battlefield.
Tywin Lannister: Maester Pycelle assured me your wounds were not fatal.
Tyrion Lannister: I organized the defense of this city while you held court in the ruins of Harrenhal. I led the foray when the enemies were at the gate while your grandson, the king, quivered in fear behind the walls. I bled in the mud for our family. And as my reward, I was trundled off to some dark little cell. But what do I want? A little bloody gratitude would be a start.
Tywin Lannister: Jugglers and singers require applause. You are a Lannister. Do you think I demanded a garland of roses every time I suffered a wound on a battlefield? Hmm? Now, I have seven kingdoms to look after and three of them are in open rebellion. So tell me what you want.
Tyrion Lannister: I want what is mine by right. Jaime is your eldest son, heir to your lands and titles. But he is a Kingsguard, forbidden from marriage or inheritance. The day Jaime put on the white cloak, he gave up his claim to Casterly Rock. I am your son and lawful heir.
Tywin Lannister: You want Casterly Rock?
Tyrion Lannister: It is mine by right.
Tywin Lannister: We'll find you accommodations more suited to your name and as a reward for your accomplishments during the battle of Blackwater Bay. And when the time is right, you will be given a position fit for your talents so that you can serve your family and protect our legacy. And if you serve faithfully, you will be rewarded with a suitable wife. And I would let myself be consumed by maggots before mocking the family name and making you heir to Casterly Rock.
Tyrion Lannister: Why?
Tywin Lannister: Why? You ask that? You, who killed your mother to come into the world? You are an ill-made, spiteful little creature full of envy, lust, and low cunning. Men's laws give you the right to bear my name and display my colors since I cannot prove that you are not mine. And to teach me humility, the gods have condemned me to watch you waddle about wearing that proud lion that was my father's sigil and his father's before him. But neither gods nor men will ever compel me to let you turn Casterly Rock into your whorehouse. Go, now. Speak no more of your rights to Casterly Rock. Go. [Tyrion walks away] Oh, one more thing. The next whore I catch in your bed I'll hang.

  --  Valar Dohaeris [3.01]
%
Davos Seaworth: Your Grace, you are the rightful king. Not only by blood. You're an honorable man, a just man. And there is still a war to fight.
Stannis Baratheon: I am fighting.
Davos Seaworth: By burning prisoners alive?
Melissandre: How would you punish the infidels, Ser Davos?
Davos Seaworth: I do not judge people for the gods they worship. If I did, I'd have thrown you in the sea before you ever set foot on Dragonstone.
Melissandre: I'm not your enemy.
Davos Seaworth: You are my enemy.
Melissandre: Was it me you fought on Blackwater Bay? Did I set your ships ablaze? I wasn't there when the wildfire killed our men by the thousands. I could have saved those men. You would have taken the city, Stannis would now sit upon his rightful throne, and you would stand beside him. But I wasn't there because you convinced your king to leave me behind. Do you hear them screaming? All those burning men in the water crying for their mothers, for their gods for help? Until the moment the Blackwater swallowed them. Don't despair, Ser Davos. What I told your son is true. Death by fire is the purest death.
[Davos pulls out a knife and tries to stab Melissandre, but is restrained by the guards.
Davos Seaworth: This woman is evil! She's the mother of demons.
Stannis Baratheon: Take him to the dungeon and lock him in a cell.
Davos Seaworth: Your Grace!
Melissandre: You've chosen the darkness, Ser Davos.
Davos Seaworth [to Stannis] She will destroy us all!
Melissandre: I will pray for you.

  --  Valar Dohaeris [3.01]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: I do apologize, my lady. Small council meetings. At what point does it become treason to waste the king's time? That's a lovely gown, my lady.
Cersei Lannister: Yes, it suits you perfectly. I imagine you might be rather cold.
Margaery Tyrell: The climate is a bit more forgiving back in Highgarden, Your Grace.
Joffrey Baratheon: Shall I have them bring you a shawl, my lady?
Margaery Tyrell: I am touched by your concern, Your Grace. Luckily for us Tyrells, our blood runs quite warm. Doesn't it, Loras?
Loras Tyrell: Yes.
Margaery Tyrell: Loras, isn't the queen's gown magnificent? The fabric, the embroidery, the metalwork. I've never seen anything like it.
Cersei Lannister: You might find a bit of armor quite useful once you become queen. Perhaps before. Joffrey tells me you stopped your carriage at Flea Bottom on your way back from the sept this morning.
Margaery Tyrell: Yes. I paid a visit to an orphanage the High Septon told me about.
Loras Tyrell: Margaery does a great deal of work with the poor back in Highgarden. The lowest among us are no different from the highest if you give them a chance and approach them with an open heart.
Cersei Lannister: An open heart is what you'll get in Flea Bottom if you're not careful, my dear. Not long ago, we were attacked by a mob there. We had a full complement of guards that didn't stop them. The king barely escaped with his life.
Joffrey Baratheon: My mother's always had a penchant for drama. Facts become less and less important to her as she grows older. Our lives were never truly in danger.
Cersei Lannister: You're right, of course. But you are your father's son. We can't all have a king's bravery.
Margaery Tyrell: Hunger turns men into beasts. I'm glad House Tyrell has been able to help in this regard. They tell me 100 wagons arrive daily now from the Reach. Wheat, barley, apples. We've had a blessed harvest. And, of course, it's our duty to assist the capital in time of need.
Joffrey Baratheon: Well, as Ser Loras said, Lady Margaery has done this sort of... charitable work before. I'm sure she knows what she's doing.
Cersei Lannister: I'm sure she does.

  --  Valar Dohaeris [3.01]
%
[Missandei translates Kraznys, who cannot speak the Common Tongue, explanation of Unsullied's training to Daenerys]
Missandei: They begin their training at five. Every day they drill from dawn to dusk until they have mastered the shortsword, the shield, and the three spears. Only one boy in four survives this rigorous training. Their discipline and loyalty are absolute. They fear nothing.
Jorah Mormont: Even the bravest men fear death.
Missandei: [in High Valyrian] The knight says even brave men fear death.
Kraznys mo Nakloz: [in High Valyrian] Tell the old man he smells like piss.
Missandei: [pauses] [in High Valyrian] Truly, Master?
Kraznys mo Nakloz: [in High Valyrian No, not truly. Are you a girl or a goat to ask such a thing?
Missandei: [in the Common Tongue] My master says the Unsullied are not men. Death means nothing to them.
Kraznys mo Nakloz: in High Valyrian] Tell this ignorant whore of a Westerner to open her eyes and watch.
Missandei: He begs you attend to this carefully, Your Grace.
Daenerys Targaryen: Tell the good master there is no need.
Kraznys: [in High Valyrian] She's worried about their nipples. Does the dumb bitch know we've cut off their balls? [cuts off the nipple of one of the Unsullied, who doesn't even flinch]
Missandei: My master points out that men don't need nipples.
Kraznys: [in High Valyrian] Here, I'm done with you.
Unsullied soldier: [in High Valyrian] This one is pleased to have served you.
Missandei: To win his shield, an Unsullied must go to the slave marts with a silver mark, find a newborn and kill it before its mother's eyes. This way, my master says, we make certain there is no weakness left in them.
Daenerys Targaryen: You take a babe from its mother's arms, kill it as she watches, and pay for her pain with a silver coin?
Missendei: [in High Valyrian] She is offended. She asks if you pay a silver coin to the mother, for her dead baby.
Kraznys: [in High Valyrian] What a soft mewling fool this one is.
Missandei: My master would like you to know that the silver is paid to the baby's owner, not the mother.
Daenerys Targaryen: How many do you have to sell?
[Kraznys holds up eight fingers]
Daenerys Targaryen: 8,000.
Kraznys: [in High Valyrian] Tell the Westerosi whore she has until tomorrow.
Missandei: Master Kraznys asks that you please hurry. Many other buyers are interested.

  --  Valar Dohaeris [3.01]
%
Jaime Lannister: You know, it doesn't matter how loyal a servant you are, no one enjoys the company of a humorless mute. Trust me on this. People have been serving me since I was born. You think Lady Stark is going to want a giant towheaded plank following her around for the rest of her life? A week's journey with you and she'll order you to fall on your sword.
Brienne: If Lady Stark is unhappy with any aspect of my service, I'm sure she'll let me know. She's an honest woman.
Jaime Lannister: For all the good it's done her. How did you come into Lady Stark's service? There's something we can talk about.
Brienne: Not your concern, Kingslayer.
Jaime Lannister: It had to be recently. You weren't with her at Winterfell.
Brienne: How would you know?
Jaime Lannister: Because I visited Winterfell. I would have noticed your dour head smacking into the archways.
Brienne: Move.
Jaime Lannister: Were you pledged to Stannis?
Brienne: [disgustedly] Gods, no.
Jaime Lannister: Ah, Renly. Really? He wasn't fit to rule over anything more important than a 12-course meal.
Brienne: Shut your mouth.
Jaime Lannister: Why? I lived with him at court since he was a boy, don't forget. Could hardly escape the little tulip skipping down the corridors in his embroidered silks. I knew him far better than you.
Brienne: I knew him as well as anyone. As a member of his Kingsguard, he trusted me with everything. He would have been a wonderful king.
Jaime Lannister: Sounds like you quite fancied him.
Brienne: I did not fancy him.
Jaime Lannister: Oh, gods, you did. Did you ever tell him? No, of course not. You weren't Renly's type, I'm afraid. He preferred curly-haired little girls like Loras Tyrell. You're far too much man for him.
Brienne: I'm not interested in foul rumors.
Jaime Lannister: Unless they're about me. It's all true about Renly. His proclivities were the worst kept secret at court. It's a shame the throne isn't made out of cocks. They'd have never got him off it.
Brienne: [grabs Jaime by his hair] Shut your mouth!
Jaime Lannister: I don't blame him. And I don't blame you, either. We don't get to choose who we love.

  --  Dark Wings, Dark Words [3.02]
%
Margaery Tyrell: Lady Sansa, it is my honor to present my grandmother... the Lady Olenna of House Tyrell.
Olenna Tyrell Kiss me, child. [Sansa does so] It's so good of you to visit me and my foolish flock of hens. We're very sorry for your losses.
Sansa Stark: And I was sorry when I heard of Lord Renly's death, Lady Margaery. He was very gallant.
Olenna Tyrell: Gallant, yes. And charming and very clean. He knew how to dress and smile and somehow this gave him the notion he was fit to be king.
Margaery Tyrell: Renly was brave and gentle, Grandmother. Father liked him and so did Loras.
Olenna Tyrell Loras is young and very good at knocking men off horses with a stick. That does not make him wise. As to your fathead father--
Margaery Tyrell: Grandmother! What will Sansa think of us?
Olenna Tyrell: She might think we have some wits about us. One of us, at any rate. It was treason. I warned them. Robert has two sons and Renly has an older brother. How could he possibly have any claim to that ugly iron chair? We should have stayed well out of all this if you ask me. But once the cow's been milked, there's no squirting the cream back up her udders. So here we are to see things through.

  --  Dark Wings, Dark Words [3.02]
%
Olenna Tyrell: Here, Sansa, come sit with me. I'm much less boring than these others. Do you know my son? The Lord of Highgarden?
Sansa Stark: I haven't had the pleasure.
Olenna Tyrell: No great pleasure, believe me. A ponderous oaf. His father was an oaf as well. My husband, the late Lord Luthor. He managed to ride off a cliff whilst hawking. They say he was looking up at the sky and paying no mind to where his horse was taking him. And now my son is doing the same, only this time he's riding a lion instead of a horse. Now... I want you to tell me the truth about this royal boy, this Joffrey.
Sansa Stark: I... I...
Olenna Tyrell: You, you. Who else would know better? We've heard some troubling tales. Is there any truth to them? Has this boy mistreated you? [Sansa remains silent] Has he ripped out your tongue?
Sansa Stark: Joff- King Joffrey, he-- His Grace is very fair and handsome and as brave as a lion.
Olenna Tyrell: Yes, all Lannisters are lions. And when a Tyrell farts, it smells like a rose. But how kind is he? How clever? Has he a good heart, a gentle hand?
Margaery Tyrell: I'm to be his wife. I only want to know what that means.
Olenna Tyrell: [to a servant] Bring me some cheese.
Servant: The cheese will be served after the cakes, my lady.
Olenna Tyrell: The cheese will be served when I want it served. And I want it served now. [to Sansa] Are you frightened, child? No need for that. We're only women here. Tell us the truth. No harm will come to you.
Sansa Stark: My father always told the truth.
Olenna Tyrell: Yes, he had that reputation. And they named him traitor and took his head.
Sansa Stark: Joffrey. Joffrey did that. He promised he would be merciful and he cut my father's head off. And he said that was mercy. Then he took me up on the walls and made me look at it.
Margaery Tyrell: Go on.
Sansa Stark: I- I can't. I never meant- my father was a traitor. My brother as well. I have traitor's blood. Please don't make me say anymore.
Margaery Tyrell: She's terrified, Grandmother. Just look at her.
Olenna Tyrell: Speak freely, child. We would never betray your confidence, I swear it.
Sansa Stark: He's a monster.
Olenna Tyrell: Ah. That's a pity.
Sansa Stark: Please, don't stop the wedding.
Olenna Tyrell: Have no fear. The Lord Oaf of Highgarden is determined that Margaery shall be queen. Even so, we thank you for the truth. Ah, here comes my cheese.

  --  Dark Wings, Dark Words [3.02]
%
Queen Talisa: [observing the prayer wheel Catelyn is making] May I help you, Lady Stark?
Catelyn Stark: [sharply] No.
Queen Talisa: I'm sorry, I shouldn't have-
Catelyn Stark: You can't help because a mother makes one for her children to protect them. Only a mother can make them.
Queen Talisa: You've made them before?
Catelyn Stark: Twice.
Queen Talisa: Did they work?
Catelyn Stark: After a fashion. I prayed for my son Bran to survive his fall. Many years before that, one of the boys came down with the pox. Maester Luwin said if he made it through the night, he'd live. But it would be a very long night. So I sat with him all through the darkness, listened to his ragged little breaths, his coughing, his whimpering.
Queen Talisa: Which boy?
Catelyn Stark: Jon Snow. When my husband brought that baby home from the war, I couldn't bear to look at him, didn't want to see those brown stranger's eyes staring at me. So I prayed to the gods "Take him away, make him die". He got the pox and I knew I was the worst woman who ever lived. A murderer. I'd condemned this poor, innocent child to a horrible death all because I was jealous of his mother, a woman he didn't even know! So I prayed to all Seven Gods "Let the boy live. Let him live and I'll love him. I'll be a mother to him. I'll beg my husband to give him a true name, to call him Stark and be done with it, to make him one of us".
Queen Talisa: And he lived?
Catelyn Stark: And he lived. And I couldn't keep my promise. And everything that's happened since then, all this horror that's come to my family...it's all because I couldn't love a motherless child.

  --  Dark Wings, Dark Words [3.02]
%
Osha: Isn't he ashamed, your brother, needing you to protect him?
Meera Reed: Where's the shame in that?
Osha: Any boy his age who needs his sister to protect him is gonna find himself needing lots of protecting.
Meera Reed: Some people will always need help. That doesn't mean they're not worth helping.

  --  Dark Wings, Dark Words [3.02]
%
Edmure Tully: If I may, nephew, I encountered a situation with one of my lieutenants at the Stone Mill which may have some bearing-
Brynden Tully: Why don't you shut your mouth about that damned mill? And don't call him "nephew." He is your king.
Edmure Tully: Robb knows I meant him no disr-
Brynden Tully: You're lucky I'm not your king. I wouldn't let you wave your blunders around like a victory flag.
Edmure Tully: My blunder sent Tywin's mad dog scurrying back to Casterly Rock with his tail between his legs. I think King Robb understands we're not gonna win this war if he's the only one winning any battles. No, there's glory enough to go around.
Robb Stark: It's not about glory. Your instructions were to wait for him to come to you.
Edmure Tully: I seized an opportunity.
Robb Stark: What value was the mill?
Edmure Tully: The Mountain was garrisoned across the river from it.
Robb Stark: Is he there now?
Edmure Tully: Of course not. We took the fight to him. He could not withstand us.
Robb Stark: I wanted to draw the Mountain into the west, into our country where we could surround him and kill him. I wanted him to chase us, which he would have done because he is a mad dog without a strategic thought in his head. I could have that head on a spike by now. Instead, I have a mill.
Edmure Tully: We took hostages. Willem Lannister. Martyn Lannister.
Robb Stark: Willem and Martyn Lannister are 14 years old.
Brynden Tully:'Martyn is 15, I believe.
Robb Stark: Tywin Lannister has my sisters. Have I sued for peace?
Edmure Tully: No.
Robb Stark: Do you think he'll sue for peace because we have his... Father's brother's great-grandsons?
Edmure Tully: No.
Robb Stark: How many men did you lose?
Edmure Tully: 208. But for every man we lost, the Lannisters--
Robb Stark: We need our men more than Tywin needs his!
Edmure Tully: I'm sorry. I didn't know.
Robb Stark: You would have. Right here today at this gathering if you had been patient.
Brynden Tully: We seem to be running short of patience here.
Robb Stark: You know who isn't? Tywin Lannister.

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
[At a Small Council meeting]
Tywin Lannister: What news of Jaime? [All the others remain silent] Twenty thousand unwashed Northerners have known about his escape for weeks. Collectively, you control more spies and informants than the rest of the world combined. Do you mean to tell me that none of you has any notion where he is?
Varys: We are trying, my lord-
Tywin Lannister: Try harder! What do we have then?
Varys: Robb Stark and most of his bannermen are in Riverrun for the funeral of his grandfather, Lord Hoster Tully. In Stark's absence, Roose Bolton holds Harrenhal...[Varys smirks at Littlefinger] which would make him Lord of Harrenhal, in practice if not in name-
Tywin Lannister: Let him have it; the name suits our purposes far more than that useless pile of rubble. The Lord of Harrenhal will make a worthy suitor for the widow Arryn.
Littlefinger: For which I am extremely grateful to you, my lord. Lady Arryn and I have known each other since we were children; she has always been...positively predisposed towards me.
Grand Maester Pycelle: A successful courtship would make Lord Baelish Acting Lord of the Vale.
Littlefinger: Titles do seem to breed titles.
Tywin Lannister: You'll leave for the Eyrie as soon as possible and bring Lysa Arryn into the fold, then the Young Wolf can add his own aunt to the list of people who've taken up arms against him!
Tyrion Lannister: Far be it from me to hinder true love, but Lord Baelish's absence would present certain problems. The royal wedding may end up being the most expensive event in living memory. Summer had ended, hard days lie ahead, not a good time to leave the crown's finances unattended.
Tywin Lannister: Fully agreed, which is why I am naming you Master of Coin. [Cersei sniggers]
Tyrion Lannister: Master of Coin?!
Tywin Lannister: It would appear to be a position that best suits your...talents.
Tyrion Lannister: I'm quite good at spending money, but a lifetime of outrageous wealth hasn't taught me about managing it!
Cersei Lannister: [sarcastic] I have no doubt you will prove equal to this challenge.
Grand Maester Pycelle: [also sarcastic] Hear, hear!

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
Tyrion Lannister: A surprising place to keep the Royal Ledgers.
Petyr Baelish: I'm surprised you're surprised. This is the safest place in the city.
Tyrion Lannister: Not for bastards (Baelish glares at him momentarily)
Ros: That's all of them, m'Lord. (passes the ledgers to Podrick, smiling at him flirtatiously)
Tyrion Lannister: Thank you, my dear. Pod- (notices Podrick is staring at Ros' bosom) Pod. (Podrick turns to him) Take them outside. I'll be there in a moment.
Podrick Payne: Yes, m'Lord. (he leaves; Ros follows, smiling back at Tyrion and Petyr, who both watch her go)
Petyr Baelish: I hear you owe that boy a... significant debt.
Tyrion Lannister: Only my life- not all that significant, I'm afraid.
Petyrn Baelish: You should have him kighted.
Tyrion Lannister: (sarcastically) Ohh, if only the Master of Coin had such power!
Petyr Baelish: If only. (pause) I owe you a significant debt. Our redheaded friend (gestures in the general direction of Ros' departure)... you secured her release when the Queen detained her.
Tyrion Lannister: Oh- that. Of course. A simple misunderstanding.
Petyr Baelish: (smiles dangerously) Apparently, Her Grace believed the two of you had some sort of...special relationship.
Tyrion Lannister: We don't. (pause) I did fuck her, once.
Petyr Baelish: I know.
Tyrion Lannister: (confused) But- we dont.
Petyr Baelish: (chuckles) I know- but how would the Queen get that idea?
Tyrion Lannister: (smirks) Why don't you ask her? (he heads towards the door, followed by Baelish) Any advice for me, on my new position?
Petyr Baelish:...Keep a low profile?
Tyrion Lannister: If I had a golden dragon for every time I've heard that stupid joke, I'd be richer than you are.
Petyr Baelish: Well, you are richer than I am.
Tyrion Lannister:(nods) Good point.
Petyr Baelish: They're only numbers- numbers on paper. Once you understand them, it's easy to make them behave. You want a real challenge? (pulls the door open a crack, letting in the sounds of prostitutes giggling.) Try whores.
Tyrion Lannister: (smiles) I've tried quite a few. Well, lots of work to do. (cryptically) Enjoy the Eyrie.

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
[Melisandre is preparing to depart Dragonstone]
Stannis Baratheon: You refuse to tell me where you're going?
Melisandre: I don't know yet. The fires will show me.
Stannis Baratheon: How long will you be gone?
Melisandre: [exasperated] I don't know! [Stannis grabs her]
Stannis Baratheon: You're abandoning me!
Melisandre: I will never abandon you. You are the Son of Fire; I am sworn to serve you!
Stannis Baratheon: Then serve me now.
Melisandre: When I return you will understand.
Stannis Baratheon: My enemies think they've destroyed me. They're laughing at me, the way Renly laughed at me. I want Joffrey dead. I want Robb Stark dead. Make me another 'son'.
Melisandre: I cannot.
Stannis Baratheon: Why?!
Melisandre: You don't have the strength. It would kill you.
Stannis Baratheon: I'm not so easily killed; men have been trying for years. I want you.
Melisandre: Your fires burn low, my king. [Stannis turns to leave] There is another way, a better way.
Stannis Baratheon: You told me your magic requires a king's blood.
Melisandre: Yes.
Stannis Baratheon: I am the one true king!
Melisandre: You are. But there are others with your blood in their veins. You will sit on the Iron Throne, but first there must be sacrifices. The Lord of Light demands it.

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
[In Astapor]
Barristan Selmy: Leave this place, Your Grace. Leave tonight, I beg you.
Jorah Mormont: And what is she to do for soldiers?
Barristan Selmy: We can find sellswords in Pentos and Myr.
Jorah Mormont: Is it we already, Ser Barristan? If you want to sit on the throne your ancestors built, you must win it. That will mean blood on your hands before the thing is done.
Daenerys Targaryen: The blood of my enemies, not the blood of innocents.
Jorah Mormont: How many wars have you fought in, Ser Baristan?
Barristan Selmy: Three.
Jorah Mormont: Have you ever seen a war in which innocents didn't die by the thousands? [Barristan remains silent, but shakes his head] I was in King's Landing after the sack, Khaleesi. You know what I saw? Butchery. Babies, children, old men, more women raped than you can count. There's a beast in every man, and it stirs when you put a sword in his hand...but the Unsullied are not men. They do not rape, they do not put cities to the sword unless they're ordered to do so. If you buy them, the only men they'll kill are those you want dead. [Barristan scoffs]
Daenerys Targaryen: You disagree, Ser Barristan?
Barristan Selmy: When your brother Rhaegar led his army into battle at the Trident, men died for him because they believed in him, because they loved him, not because they'd been bought at a slaver's auction. I fought beside the last dragon on that day, your Grace. I bled beside him.
Jorah Mormont: Rhaegar fought valiantly, Rhaegar fought nobly...and Rhaegar died.
Daenerys Targaryen: Did you know him well, Ser Barristan?
Barristan Selmy: I did, your Grace. The finest man I ever met.
Daenerys Targaryen: I wish I had known him...but he was not the last dragon.

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
[Tyrion is going through Littlefinger's books of commerce]
Tyrion Lannister: For years, I've heard Littlefinger is a magician. Whenever the Crown needs money, he rubs his hands together and poof! Mountains of gold.
Bronn: Let me guess; he's not a magician?
Tyrion Lannister: No.
Bronn: He's stealing it?
Tyrion Lannister: Worse; he's borrowing it.
Bronn: What's wrong with that?
Tyrion Lannister: We can't afford to pay it back, that's what wrong with it! The crown owes millions to my father.
Bronn: Seeing as it's his grandson's arse on the throne, I imagine he'll forgive that.
Tyrion Lannister: Forgive a debt? My father? For a man of the world, you're strangely naive.
Bronn: I've never borrowed money before. I'm not clear on the rules.
Tyrion Lannister: Well...the basic principle is 'I lend you money, and after an agreed upon period of time, you return it...with interest'.
Bronn: And what if I don't?
Tyrion Lannister: Well, you have to.
Bronn: Well, what if I don't?
Tyrion Lannister: This is why I don't lend you money. Anyway, it's not my father I'm worried about. It's the Iron Bank of Braavos. We owe them tens of millions. If we fail to repay these loans, the Bank will fund our enemies. One way or another, they always get their gold back.

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
Locke: (holding a knife to Jaime's face) You think you're the smartest man there is. Everyone alive has to bow to lick and scrape your boots.
Jaime: My father-
Locke: You get in any trouble, all you got to do is say "My father" and that's it. All your troubles are gone. (Jaime grumbles) Have you got something to say? (presses the knife to Jaime's eye) You don't want to say the wrong thing. You're nothing without your daddy, and your daddy ain't here. (takes the knife away) Never forget that. (rises) Here, this should help you remember! (bring's the blade down, slicing Jaime's hand off)

  --  Walk of Punishment [3.03]
%
[Tyrion walks into a room to find Varys unloading a very large crate]:
Varys: Oh- Lord Tyrion! Come in, come in...
Tyrion Lannister: I hoped we might speak... in confidence.
Varys: Oh, always in confidence. (smiles, begins prising loose various parts of the crate lid with a crowbar.)
Tyrion Lannister: About the events of the Blackwater. (Varys continues his work on the crate)... Perhaps this is the wrong time?
Varys: (oddly cheerful) Oh, no, it's a wonderful time!
Tyrion Lannister: I thought one of your little birds might have... knowledge of my sister's intentions to-
Varys: End your life? (pauses, looks at Tyrion, who nods)
Tyrion Lannister:... I didn't inherit Littlefinger's spies along with his position, I'm afraid. Which is why I'm coming to you. I need proof.
Varys: (scoffs, chuckles) Proof? Will there be a trial (continues working on the crate lid)
Tyrion Lannister: I need to know. (Varys looks up at him in exasperation)
Varys: I have no proof... only whispers. (Tyrion sighs in disappointment) Before all this...nastiness, I was going to tell you the story of how I was cut. Do you want to hear it still?
Tyrion: I don't know. Do I?
Varys: (pauses) As a boy, in Myr, I travelled with a troupe of actors through the Free Cities. One day, a man approached my master with an offer too tempting to refuse. I feared the man meant to use me, as I'd heard some men use small boys- but what he wanted was far worse. He gave me a potion that made me powerless to move or speak, yet did nothing to dull my senses. With a hooked blade, he sliced me, root and stem, chanting all the while. He burned my parts on a brazier; the flames burned blue, and I heard a voice... answer his call. (pause, stares at Tyrion with a fearful expression) I still dream of that night. Not of the sorcerer, not of his blade...I dream of the voice. Was it a god? A demon? Some conjurer's trick? I don't know- but the sorcerer called... and a voice answered. (vengefully_ And ever since that day, I have hated magic, and all who practice it. (Tyrion nods impatiently) But, you can see why I was eager to aide in your fight against Stannis and his Red Priestess- a symbolic revenge, of sorts. (smiles, continues working on the crate lid)
Tyrion Lannister: Yes- I feel the need for actual revenge. Against the actual person who tried to have me killed, which will require a certain degree of... influence which-
Varys: (gestures at him with the crowbar) You do not possess- at the moment. (Tyrion smiles weakly, Varys sets down the crowbar and walks around the crate) But- influence is largely a matter of... patience, I find. (goes to a mirror and washes his hands) Once I had served the sorcerer's purpose, he threw me out of his house, to die. I resolved to live, to spite him. (Tyrion frowns thoughtfully, Varys washes his face and puts on his jeweled rings) I begged, I sold what parts of my body remained to me- I became an excellent thief. And soon, learned that the contents of a man's letters are more valuable than the contents of his purse. Step by step... One distasteful task after another, I made my way from the slums of Myr... to the Small Council Chamber. (Turns to look at Tyrion) Influence grows, like a weed. I tended mine, patiently,(walks back to the crate) until its' tendrils reached from the Red Keep, all the way across to the far side of the world... where I managed to wrap them around something very special. (pulls the crate lid open; Tyrion looks inside with him to find a ragged old man, bound and gagged)
Tyrion Lannister: (shocked)...The sorcerer. (The old man whimpers through the gag)
Varys: (menacingly) Hello, my old friend... It's been a long time. (to Tyrion) I have no doubt, the revenge you want will be yours in time... if you have the stomach for it. (closes the crate on the sorcerer, who is screaming through the gag)

  --  And Now His Watch is Ended [3.04]
%
[Daenerys has just sold one of her dragons, Drogon, for an army of 8000 Unsullied]
Daenerys Targaryen: Is it done then? They belong to me?
Missandei: [after translating] It is done. You hold the whip.
Master Kraznys: [attempting to rein Drogon in] The bitch has her army.
[Daenerys turns to face the Unsullied. Kraznys does not notice what happens next, as he is too busy with Drogon]
Daenerys Targaryen: [In Valyrian] Unsullied! Forward march! [they do so] Halt! [They stop]
Master Kraznys: Tell the bitch her beast won't come.
Daenerys Targaryen: [turns to face him, still in Valyrian] A dragon is not a slave.
Master Kraznys: [astonished] You speak Valyrian!?
Daenerys Targaryen: [coldly] I am Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, of the blood of Old Valyria. Valyrian is my mother tongue. [turns to the Unsullied] Unsullied! Slay the masters, slay the soldiers, slay every man who holds a whip, but harm no child. Strike the chains of every slave you see!
[the Unsullied begin slaughtering the Astapori slavers]
Master Kraznys: I am your master. Kill her! Kill her!
Daenerys Targaryen: [with a cold smile] Dracarys.
[Drogon breathes fire, burning Krasnyz]

  --  And Now His Watch is Ended [3.04]
%
Robb Stark: It took five of you to murder two unarmed squires?
Rickard Karstark: Not murder, Your Grace. Vengeance.
Robb Stark: Vengeance? Those boys didn't kill your sons. I saw Harrion die on the battlefield and Torrhen-
Rickard Karstark: Was strangled by the Kingslayer. They were his kin.
Robb Stark: [furious] THEY WERE BOYS! Look at them.
Rickard Karstark: Tell your mother to look at them. She killed them as much as I.
Robb Stark: My mother had nothing to do with this. This was your treason.
Rickard Karstark: It's treason to free your enemies. In war, you kill your enemies. Did your father not teach you that, boy?
[Brynden Tully punches Karstark in the face]
Robb Stark: Leave him.
Rickard Karstark: Aye. Leave me to the king. He wants to give me a scolding before he sets me free. That's how he deals with treason. Our King in the North. Or should I call him the King Who Lost the North?
Robb Stark: Escort Lord Karstark to the dungeon. Hang the rest.
Karstark soldier: Mercy, sire! I didn't kill anyone. I only watched for the guards.
Robb Stark: This one was only the watcher. Hang him last so he can watch the others die.

  --  Kissed by Fire [3.05]
%
Jaime Lannister: [steps into a bath with Brienne] If I faint, pull me out. I don't intend to be the first Lannister to die in a bathtub.
Brienne of Tarth: Why should I care how you die?
Jaime Lannister: You swore a solemn vow, remember? You're supposed to get me to King's Landing in one piece. [nods to his severed hand] Not going so well, is it? No wonder Renly died with you guarding him- [Brienne rises from the bath in anger] That was unworthy. Forgive me. You protected me better than most-
Brienne of Tarth: Don't you mock me.
Jaime Lannister: I'm apologizing. I'm sick of fighting. Let's call a truce.
Brienne of Tarth: [sinks back into the bath] You need trust to have a truce.
Jaime Lannister: I trust you. [sees Brienne staring] There it is. There's the look. I've seen it for 17 years on face after face. You all despise me. Kingslayer. Oathbreaker. A man without honor. You've heard of wildfire?
Brienne of Tarth: Of course.
Jaime Lannister: The Mad King was obsessed with it. He loved to watch people burn, the way their skin blackened and blistered and melted off their bones. He burned lords he didn't like. He burned Hands who disobeyed him. He burned anyone who was against him. Before long, half the country was against him. Aerys saw traitors everywhere. So he had his pyromancer place caches of wildfire all over the city. beneath the Sept of Baelor and the slums of Flea Bottom. Under houses, stables, taverns. Even beneath the Red Keep itself. Finally, the day of reckoning came. Robert Baratheon marched on the capital after his victory at the Trident. But my father arrived first with the whole Lannister army at his back, promising to defend the city against the rebels. I knew my father better than that. He's never been one to pick the losing side. I told the Mad King as much. I urged him to surrender peacefully. But the king didn't listen to me. He didn't listen to Varys who tried to warn him. But he did listen to Grand Maester Pycelle, that grey, sunken cunt. "You can trust the Lannisters," he said. "The Lannisters have always been true friends of the crown." So we opened the gates and my father sacked the city. Once again, I came to the king, begging him to surrender. He told me to... bring him my father's head. Then he... turned to his pyromancer. "Burn them all," he said. "Burn them in their homes. Burn them in their beds." Tell me, if your precious Renly commanded you to kill your own father and stand by while thousands of men, women, and children burned alive, would you have done it? Would you have kept your oath then? [Brienne stares at him in stunned silence] First, I killed the pyromancer. And then when the king turned to flee, I drove my sword into his back. "Burn them all," he kept saying. "Burn them all." I don't think he expected to die. He- he meant to... burn with the rest of us and rise again, reborn as a dragon to turn his enemies to ash. I slit his throat to make sure that didn't happen. That's where Ned Stark found me.
Brienne of Tarth: If this is true... why didn't you tell anyone? Why didn't you tell Lord Stark?
Jaime Lannister: Stark? You think the honorable Ned Stark wanted to hear my side? He judged me guilty the moment he set eyes on me. By what right does the wolf judge the lion? By what right!? [collapses]
Brienne of Tarth: Help! Help! The Kingslayer!
Jaime Lannister: Jaime. My name is Jaime.

  --  Kissed by Fire [3.05]
%
Tywin Lannister: Your sister has learned that your new friends the Tyrells are plotting to marry Sansa Stark to Sir Loras.
Tyrion Lannister: Very well. She's a lovely girl. Missing some of Loras' favorite bits, but I'm sure they'll make do.
Tywin Lannister: Your jokes are not appreciated.
Tyrion Lannister: It wasn't my best, but--
Tywin Lannister: I bring them into the royal fold and this is how they repay me, by trying to steal the key to the North out from under me.
Tyrion Lannister: Sansa is the key to the North? I seem to remember she has an older brother.
Tywin Lannister: The Karstarks have marched home. The Young Wolf has lost half his army. His days are numbered. Theon Greyjoy murdered both his brothers. That makes Sansa Stark the heir to Winterfell. And I am not about to hand her over to the Tyrells.
Tyrion Lannister: The Tyrell army is helping us to win this war. Do you really think it's wise to refuse them?
Tywin Lannister: There's nothing to refuse. This is a plot. Plots are not public knowledge. And the Tyrells won't carry this one out until after Joffrey's wedding. We need to act first and kill this union in its crib.
Tyrion Lannister: And how do we do that?
Tywin Lannister: We find Sansa Stark a different husband.
Tyrion Lannister: Wonderful.
Cersei Lanniser: [smiling] Yes, it is.
Tyrion Lannister: [after a long silence] You can't mean it.
Tywin Lannister: I can and I do.
Tyrion Lannister: Joffrey has made this poor girl's life miserable since the day he took her father's head. Now she's finally free of him and you give her to me? That's cruel even for you.
Tywin Lannister: Do you intend on mistreating her? The girl's happiness is not my concern, nor should it be yours.
Tyrion Lannister: She's a child!
Cersei Lannister: She's flowered, I assure you. She and I have discussed it at length.
Tywin Lannister: There, you see? You will wed her, bed her, and put a child in her. Surely you're capable of that.
Tyrion Lannister: And if I refuse?
Tywin Lannister: You wanted to be rewarded for your valor in battle. Sansa Stark is a finer reward than you could ever dare hope for. And it is past time you were wed.
Tyrion Lannister: [furious ] I was wed. Or don't you remember?
Tywin Lannister: Only too well.
Cersei Lannister: You should be thanking the gods for this. This is more than you deserve.
Tywin Lannister: Tyrion will do as he's bid. As will you.
Cersei Lannister: What do you mean?
Tywin Lannister: You'll marry Ser Loras.
Cersee Lannister: I will not.
Tywin Lannister: The boy is heir to Highgarden. Tyrion will secure the North, you will secure the Reach.
Cersei Lannnister: No, I won't do it.
Tywin Lannister: Yes, you will. You're still fertile. You need to marry again and breed.
Cersei Lannister: [furious] I am Queen Regent, not some broodmare!
Tywin Lannister: [shouting] You're my daughter! You will do as I command and you will marry Loras Tyrell and put an end to the disgusting rumors about you once and for all.
Cersei Lannnister: Father, don't make me do it again, please.
Tywin Lannister: Not another word. [rises from his seat] My children. You've disgraced the Lannister name for far too long.

  --  Kissed by Fire [3.05]
%
[Ramsay Snow blows on a trumpet, awakening Theon, who is hanging from a rack]
Ramsay: Sorry. Were you sleeping?
Theon: Wa...
Ramsay: Wa? Wa? Water! You want some water.
[Ramsay grabs a cup of water]
Ramsay: I wish I had some for you.
[Ramsay pours the water on the ground in front of an anguished Theon. Ramsay walks up to him]
Ramsay: So let's play a game. Which body part do you need the least?
Theon: Please...
Ramsay: Please is not a body part.
Theon: I'll tell you everything, please...
Ramsay: But you already told me everything, remember? Your daddy was mean to you. The Starks didn't appreciate you. One good bit, though: the Stark boys, they're still alive. Wouldn't that be a hunt to remember? You failed, but I'm a better hunter than you. Now, how about your little finger? You don't need that for much, do you? No? Good. Let's start with that.
[Ramsay begins loosening the binds on Theon's right hand]
Ramsay: You've been wondering why you're here, haven't you? Where you are, who I am, why I'm doing this to you. So guess. If you guess right, I'll tell you. By the Old Gods and the New, I swear it. You win the game if you can figure out who I am and why I'm torturing you, and I win the game if you beg me to cut off your finger!
Theon: If I win, you'll let me go?
Ramsay: If you think this has a happy ending, you haven't been paying attention.
Theon: Please...
Ramsay: [pulling out a knife] You say please again and you'll wish you hadn't. You first. Where are we?
Theon: The North.
Ramsay: Too vague.
Theon: Deepwood Motte.
Ramsay: Terrible guess!
[Ramsay jams the knife in Theon's little finger. Theon groans in pain]
Ramsay: Now where?
Theon: Last Hearth.
Ramsay: Do I look like a fucking Umber to you?
[Ramsay moves the blade around]
Theon: Aaaah, the Karhold!
Ramsay: Karhold? How did you know that? Did you see any banners flying when we came in?
Theon: No, it was just a guess.
Ramsay: Very good, Lord Theon. And who am I?
Theon: Torrhen Karstark.
Ramsay: He's dead. Strangled by the Kingslayer.
Ramsay: He was your brother. Your father is Lord Rickard Karstark.
[A defeated Ramsay sits back down]
Theon: You swore to tell me if I-!
Ramsay: You're right.
Theon: Lord Rickard Karstark is Robb Stark's bannerman. I betrayed Robb. That's why you're torturing me.
Ramsay: Yes. You win.
[Theon breathes a sigh of relief. Suddenly, Ramsay springs back to his feet]
Ramsay: Of course you forgot to ask one question. You forgot to ask if I'm a liar!
[Ramsay sticks his knife back into Theon's little finger, causing Theon to scream in agony]
Ramsay: I'm afraid I am.
[Ramsay begins carving Theon's skin on his little finger]
Ramsay: Everything I told you is a lie.
[Ramsay begins to peel off Theon's little finger skin. Theon screams in absolute pain]
Ramsay: This isn't happening to you for a reason. Well, one reason: I enjoy it.
Theon: PLEASE CUT IT OFF, CUT IT OFF, CUT IT OFF, AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!!
Ramsay: I win.

  --  The Climb [3.06]
%
Edmure Tully: The laws of gods and men are very clear: "No man may compel another man to marry."
Brynden Tully: The laws of my fist are about to compel your teeth!

  --  The Climb [3.06]
%
[Littlefinger is sitting, staring at the Iron Throne]
Varys: A thousand blades. Taken from the hands of Aegon's fallen enemies, forged in the fiery breath of Balerion the Dread.
Littlefinger: There aren't a thousand blades. There aren't even two hundred. I've counted.
Varys: Heh. I'm sure you have. Ugly old thing.
Littlefinger: Yet it has a certain... appeal.
Varys: The Lysa Arryn of chairs. Shame that you had to settle for your second choice.
Littlefinger: Early days, my friend. It is flattering, really, you feeling such dread at the prospect of me getting what I want.
Varys: Thwarting you has never been my primary ambition, I promise you... although who doesn't like to see their friends fail now and then.
Littlefinger: [stepping down from the dais] You're so right. For instance, when I thwarted your plan to give Sansa Stark to the Tyrells... if, I'm going to be honest, I did feel an unmistakeable sense of... enjoyment there. But your confidante, the one who fed you information about my plans, the one you swore to protect, you didn't bring her any enjoyment. And she didn't bring me any enjoyment. She was a bad investment on my part. Luckily, I have a friend who wanted to try something new. Something daring. And he was so grateful to me for providing this fresh experience.
Varys: [angrily] I did what I did for the good of the realm.
Littlefinger: The realm. Do you know what the realm is? It's the thousand blades of Aegon's enemies, a story we agreed to tell each other over and over 'till we forget that it's a lie.
Varys: But what do we have left once we abandon the lie? Chaos. A gaping pit waiting to swallow us all.
Littlefinger: Chaos... isn't a pit. Chaos is a ladder. Many who try to climb it fail and never get to try again. The fall breaks them. And some, who are given the chance to climb, they refuse. They cling to the realm. Or the gods. Or love. Illusions. Only the ladder is real. The climb is all there is.

  --  The Climb [3.06]
%
Missandei: Now comes the noble Razdal mo Eraz of that ancient and honorable house, master of men and speaker to savages, to offer terms of peace. [to Razdal] Noble lord, you are in the presence of Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, Queen of the Andals and the First Men, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Chains, and Mother of Dragons.
Daenerys Targaryen: [to Razdal] You may approach. Sit.
Missandei: Will the noble lord take refreshment?
Razdal: Ancient and glorious is Yunkai. Our empire was old before dragons stirred in old Valyria. Many an army has broken against our walls. You shall find no easy conquest here, khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: Good. My Unsullied need practice. I was told to blood them early.
Razdal: [nods] If blood is your desire, blood shall flow. But why? 'Tis true you have committed savageries in Astapor. But the Yunkai are a forgiving and generous people. The Wise Masters of Yunkai have sent a gift for the silver queen. [slaves bring in two chests of gold] There is far more than this awaiting you on the deck of your ship.
Daenerys Targaryen: My ship?
Razdal: Yes, khaleesi. As I said, we are a generous people. You shall have as many ships as you require.
Daenerys Targaryen: And what do you ask in return?
Razdal: All we ask is that you make use of these ships. Sail them back to Westeros where you belong and leave us to conduct our affairs in peace.
Daenerys Targaryen: I have a gift for you as well. Your life.
Razdal: My life?
Daenerys Targaryen: And the lives of your Wise Masters. But I also want something in return. You will release every slave in Yunkai. Every man, woman, and child shall be given as much food, clothing, and property as they can carry as payment for their years of servitude. Reject this gift, and I shall show you no mercy.
Razdal: You are mad. We are not Astapor or Qarth. We are Yunkai and we have powerful friends. Friends who would take great pleasure in destroying you. Those who survive, we shall enslave once more. Perhaps we'll make a slave of you as well. [One of Daenerys' dragons screeches] You swore me safe conduct.
Daenerys Targaryen: I did, but my dragons made no promises. And you threatened their mother.
Razdal: [to his slaves] Take the gold.
[Daenerys' dragons screech and the slaves back away]
Daenerys Targaryen: My gold. You gave it to me, remember? And I shall put it to good use. You'd be wise to do the same with my gift to you. Now get out. [Razdal leaves]
Barristan Selmy: The Yunkish are a proud people. They will not bend.
Daenerys Targaryen: And what happens to things that don't bend?

  --  The Bear and the Maiden Fair [3.07]
%
Melissandre: Haven't you ever wondered where your strength came from? Your talent for fighting?
Gendry: I'm lowborn. As low as can be. My mother was a tavern wench.
Melissandre: Mine was a slave. So was I. Bought and sold, scourged and branded, until the Lord of Light reached down, took me in his hand and raised me up.
Gendry: I was born in Flea Bottom.
Melissandre: Your blood is noble.
Gendry: Are you saying my father, he was some lord or...
Melissandre: There. [nods to the Red Keep] Your father's house.
Gendry: I'm just a bastard.
Melissandre: The bastard of Robert of the House Baratheon, First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men. Why do you think the gold cloaks wanted you? There is power in a king's blood.

  --  The Bear and the Maiden Fair [3.07]
%
Brienne of Tarth: I thought you were gone.
Jaime Lannister: Tomorrow.
Brienne of Tarth: Have they told you what they plan to do with me?
Jaime Lannister: Lord Bolton's traveling tomorrow as well. He's going to the Twins for Edmure Tully's wedding. You're to remain here.
Brienne of Tarth: With Locke?
Jaime Lannister: I owe you a debt.
Brienne of Tarth: When Catelyn Stark released you, we both made a promise to her. Now it's your promise. You gave your word. Keep it and consider the debt paid.
Jaime Lannister: I will return the Stark girls to their mother. I swear it.
Brienne of Tarth: Good-bye, Ser Jaime.

  --  The Bear and the Maiden Fair [3.07]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: [after threatening to rape Sansa] Time for the bedding ceremony!
Tyrion Lannister: There will be no bedding ceremony.
Joffrey: [leading Sansa by the hand] Where's your respect for tradition, uncle?! Come, everyone! Pick her up, and carry her to her wedding bed! Get rid of her gown, she won't be needing it any longer! [pointing] Ladies! Attend to my uncle, he's not heavy!
Tyrion Lannister: There will be no bedding ceremony.
Joffrey Baratheon: [annoyed] There will be if I command it!
[Tyrion angrily slams his dagger into the table, startling Joffrey, and eliciting horrified silence from the wedding-goers]
Tyrion Lannister: [raging] Then you'll be fucking your own bride with a wooden cock!
[Lord Tywin, sensing danger, gets to his feet]
Joffrey: [shocked, and seething] What did you say?... What...Did you. SAY!?
Tywin Lannister: I believe we can dispense with the bedding ceremony, Your Grace. I'm sure Tyrion did not mean to threaten the king. [Tyrion visibly swallows his anger and grins]
Tyrion Lannister: [laughs] A bad joke, Your Grace. Made out of envy of your own royal manhood. Mine is so small, my poor wife won't even know I'm there.
Tywin Lannister: Your uncle is clearly quite drunk, Your Grace.

  --  Second Sons [3.08]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [heavily drunk] I am the god of tits and wine! I shall build a shrine to myself at the next brothel I visit!

  --  Second Sons [3.08]
%
Margaery Tyrell: [to Cersei, as they prepare for the wedding] You look radiant, your Grace.
Cersei Lannister: Radiant? Why radiant?
Margaery Tyrell: It's word that came to mind. [Cersei smiles, though falsely, and Margaery takes her arm] We're going to be sisters soon, we should be friends.
Cersei Lannister: You're a musical girl, aren't you? I imagine you have a lovely voice.
Margaery Tyrell: A better dancer, than a singer, I'm afraid.
Cersei Lannister: Ah, but you know the song, the Rains of Castamere?
Margaery Tyrell: Of course. They play it so often here at court.
Cersei Lannister: So you know the story of House Reyne of Castamere?
Margaery Tyrell: Not as well as you, I'm sure.
Cersei Lannister: House Reyne was a powerful family. Very wealthy. Second wealthiest in Westeros. Aren't the Tyrells the second wealthiest family in Westeros now? Of course, ambitious climbers don't want to stop on the second highest rung. If only you could take that final step. You'd see further than all the rest. You'd be alone with nothing but blue sky above you. So Lord Reyne built a castle, as grand as Casterly Rock. He gave his wife diamonds, larger than any my mother ever wore. And finally, one day, he rebelled against my father. Do you know where House Reyne is now?
Margaery Tyrell: Gone?
Cersei Lannister: Gone? [menacingly] A gentle word. Why not say slaughtered? Every man, woman and child, put to the sword. I remember seeing their bodies hanging high above the gates of Casterly Rock. My father let them rot up there all summer. It was a long summer. [Quoting "Rains of Castamere] And now the rains weep o'er their halls, and not a soul to hear." [Takes Margaery's hand, looks into her eyes, and speaks in a cold tone] If you ever call me "sister" again, I'll have you strangled in your sleep.

  --  Second Sons [3.08]
%
Arya Stark: I know a killer. A real killer.
The Hound: That so?
Arya Stark: You'd be like a kitten to him. He'd kill you with his little finger.
The Hound: [points to farmer he'd meant to kill] That him?
Arya Stark: ...No.
The Hound: Good. [moves towards farmer again]

  --  The Rains of Castamere [3.09]
%
Walder Frey: [To Robb] Your Grace, I fear I've been, remiss in my duties. I've given you meat and wine and music, but, I haven't shown you the hospitality you deserve. My king has married and I owe my new queen a wedding gift. [Catelyn notices Roose Bolton is wearing mail, and slaps him]
Catelyn: Robb! [Turns just as Lothar Frey attacks Talisa, and the other Freys proceed to attack the northmen]

  --  The Rains of Castamere [3.09]
%
Walder Frey: The King in the North arises!

  --  The Rains of Castamere [3.09]
%
Catelyn Stark: [Holding a knife to Jeyhousse's throat] Lord Walder! Lord Walder, enough! 'Let it end! Please... He is my son, my first son! Let him go and I swear we will forget this, I swear it by the old gods and the new, we will take no vengeance!
Walder Frey: You already swore me one oath, right here in this castle. You swore by all the gods that your son would marry my daughter!
Catelyn Stark: Take me for a hostage! But let Robb go. [Turning to Robb, who is holding Talisa's body on the ground] Robb get up, get up and walk out, please! Please!
Walder Frey: And why would I let him do that?
Catelyn Stark: [Turning back to Walder Frey] On my honor as a Tully, On my honor as a Stark! Let Robb go, or I will cut your wife's throat!
Walder Frey: [Shrugs] I'll find another.
Robb Stark: [Stands up weakly] Mother...
Roose Bolton: [Walks up to Robb and holds him on the shoulder] The Lannisters send their regards.
[Roose stabs Robb through the heart with his longsword. Robb gasps for breath and falls back dead on the ground. Catelyn screams in anguish as she cuts Jeyhousse's throat. She drops the knife as her face goes blank, she is left standing there before Black Walder comes up behind her and slits her throat]

  --  The Rains of Castamere [3.09]
%
Tyrion Lannister: [reading a note] "Roslin caught a fine fat trout. Her brothers gave her a pair of wolf pelts for her wedding. Signed Walder Frey." Is that bad poetry or is it supposed to mean something?
Joffrey Baratheon: [gleefully] Robb Stark is dead! And his bitch mother! [to Pycelle] Write back to Lord Frey.Thank him for his service and command him to send Robb Stark's head. I'm going to serve it to Sansa at my wedding feast.
[this suggestion is met with disgust by the council]
Varys: Your Grace, Lady Sansa is your aunt by marriage.
Cersei Lannister: A joke. Joffrey did not mean it.
Joffrey Baratheon: Yes, I did. I'm going to have it served to Sansa at my wedding feast.
Tyrion Lannister: No. She is no longer yours to torment.
Joffrey Baratheon: Everyone is mine to torment. You'd do well to remember that, you little monster.
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, I'm a monster?! Perhaps you should speak to me more softly, then. Monsters are dangerous and just now kings are dying like flies.
[The council are aghast by this threat, though Varys gives an amused smile]
Joffrey Baratheon: I could have your tongue out for saying that!
Cersei Lannister: Let him make his threats. Hmm? He's a bitter little man.
Pycelle: Lord Tyrion should apologize immediately. Unacceptable, disrespectful, and in very bad taste.
Joffrey Baratheon: I am the king! I will punish you!
Tywin Lannister: Any man who must say, "I am the king" is no true king. I'll make sure you understand that when I've won your war for you.
Joffrey Baratheon: My father won the real war. He killed Prince Rhaegar. He took the crown while you hid under Casterly Rock!
[There is a long, tense silence, as the council wait to see how Tywin will respond to such a shocking insult; Tyrion watches eagerly to see which of the two relatives he despises the most will win. After he takes a second to contemplate his words to his grandfather, even Joffrey shows muted terror. But although Tywin's gaze never leaves Joffrey, he remains completely calm, and continues to betray no emotion]
Tywin Lannister: The king is tired. See him to his chambers.
Cersei Lannister: [quickly] Come along.
Joffrey Baratheon: I'm not tired.
Cersei Lannister: We have so much to celebrate. A wedding to plan. You must rest.
Tywin Lannister: Grand Maester, perhaps some essence of nightshade to help him sleep.
Joffrey Baratheon: I'm not... tired! [leaves, followed by everyone except Tywin]
Tywin Lannister: [To Tyrion] Not you.
Tyrion Lannister: [with grudging admiration] You just sent the most powerful man in Westeros to bed without his supper.
Tywin Lannister: You're a fool if you believe he's the most powerful man in Westeros.
Tyrion Lannister: [sarcastically] A treasonous statement! Joffrey is king.
Tywin Lannister: You really think a crown gives you power?
Tyrion Lannister: No, I think armies give you power. (Tywin nods) Robb Stark had one, never lost a battle, and you defeated him all the same. [Tywin nods again] Oh, I know. Walder Frey gets all the credit, or the blame, I suppose, depending on your allegiance. [pause] Walder Frey is many things, but a brave man? No. He never would have risked such an action, unless he had certain assurances...
Tywin Lannister: Which he got from me. Do you disapprove?
Tyrion Lannister: I'm all for cheating, this is war. But to slaughter them at a wedding...
Tywin Lannister: Explain to me why it is more noble to kill ten thousand men in battle than a dozen at dinner.
Tyrion Lannister: (sarcastically) So that's why you did it- to save lives?
Tywin Lannister: (impatient) To end the war- to protect the family. Do you want to write a song for the dead Starks? Go ahead! Write one. (pause) I'm in this world a little while longer- to defend the Lannisters, to defend my blood.
Tyrion Lannister: ...The Northerners will never forget.
Tywin Lannister: Good. Let them remember what happens when they march on the South. (pause, puts his papers away) All the Stark men are dead. Winterfell is a ruin. Roose Bolton will be named Warden of the North- until your son by Sansa comes of age. (stands up) I believe you still have some work to do on that score. (turns away, Tyrion stands up, furious, and follows him across the room)
Tyrion Lannister: (angrily) Do you think she'll open her legs for me after I tell her how we murdered her mother and brother?!
Tywin Lannister: One way or another, you will get that girl pregnant-
Tyrion Lannister: I will not rape her! (pause)
Tywin Lannister: ...Shall I explain to you in one easy lesson how the world works?
Tyrion Lannister: (sneering) Use small words- I'm not as bright as you! (Tywin glares at him)
Tywin Lannister: The house that puts family first will always defeat the house that puts the whims and wishes of its' sons and daughters first. (Tyrion gives him an odd expression) A good men does everything in his power to better his family's position- regardless of his own selfish desires. (Tyrion begins to smirk)... Does that amuse you?!
Tyrion Lannister: No, it's a very good lesson... (turns angry again) Only it's easy for you to preach utter devotion to family, when you're making all the decisions!
Tywin Lannister: (angry) Easy for me, is it?
Tyrion Lannister: When have you ever done something that wasn't in your interest, but solely for the benefit of the family?!
Tywin Lannister: (with controlled fury) The day that you were born. (Tyrion is caught off-guard, Tywin continues, for once showing grief for the loss of his wife) I wanted to carry you into the sea and let the waves wash you away. Instead, I let you live- and I've brought you up as my son. Because you're a Lannister! (storms out, Tyrion ponders his words)

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
[At the Twins, in the great hall, servants clean up the aftermath of the Red Wedding]
Walder Frey: "The late Walder Frey" old Tully called me because I didn't get my men to the Trident in time for battle. He thought he was witty...but look at us now, Tully! You're dead, your daughter's dead, your grandson's dead, your son spent his wedding night in a dungeon and I am Lord of Riverrun! [cackles]
Roose Bolton: The Blackfish escaped.
Walder Frey: An old man on the run with no allies. I have Tywin Lannister backing me, who does he have?
Roose Bolton: [unconvinced] As you say.
Walder Frey: They all laughed at me, all those high lords, they all thought they were better than me: Ned Stark, Hoster Tully...people snigger when I marry a young girl, but who said a word when Jon Arryn married the little Tully bitch?!
Roose Bolton: You'll be needing a new young girl.
Walder Frey: Yes...got that to look forward to. And you...the Warden of the North! No more Starks to bow and scrape to! Must have been torture following that stupid boy all over the country.
Roose Bolton: He ignored my advice at every turn. If he'd been a trifle less arrogant...
Walder Frey: Calling himself "The Young Wolf"...how's that for pomposity?! Well...[raises his goblet in mock toast] Here's to the Young Wolf! [makes a mocking wolf howl]
Roose Bolton: Forever young. [both men chuckle]
Walder Frey: Will you move to Winterfell now that the war's over?
Roose Bolton: At some point, perhaps. But Winterfell's in ruins.
Walder Frey: Yes...what happened up there? I heard the Greyjoy boy seized the place. I heard he killed all the ravens and then, nothing.
Roose Bolton: I sent my bastard Ramsay to root him out. Robb Stark offered amnesty for the ironborn amnesty if they gave us Theon.
Walder Frey: And?
Roose Bolton: [grins] Ramsay delivered the terms. The ironborn turned on Theon as we knew they would. They handed him over, trussed and hooded, but Ramsay...well, Ramsay has his own way of doing things.

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
Ramsay: [eating a sausage] Those girls weren't lying. You had a good sized cock. [Theon weakly looks at the sausage in horror] What? [realizes what Theon is thinking] No! Pork sausage. Do you think I'm some sort of savage? When people talk about phantom limbs, an amputee might have an itch where his foot used to be. So I've always wondered, do eunuchs have a phantom cock? Next time you think about naked girls, will you feel an itch? [Theon whimpers as Ramsay grins cruelly and waves the sausage at him. After a few moments, Ramsay lowers the sausage] Sorry. I shouldn't make jokes. My mother taught me not to throw stones at cripples...[grins] but my father taught me aim for their head!
Theon: ...kill me...
Ramsay: Sorry, what?
Theon: Kill me.
Ramsay: A little louder.
Theon: KILL ME!
Ramsay: You're no good to me dead. We need you. [Ramsay walks over to Theon and grabs his hair] You don't look like Theon Greyjoy anymore. That's a name for a lord. But you're not a lord, are you? You're just...meat. Stinking meat. You reek. Reek! That's a good name for you. What's your name?
Theon: Theon Greyjoy.
[Ramsay backhands Theon]
Ramsay: What's your name?
Theon: Th-Theon Greyjoy.
[Ramsay punches Theon]
Theon: Please...
[Ramsay grabs Theon by the face]
Ramsay: What...is...your...name?
Theon: Reek. My name is...Reek.

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
Lord Varys: [to Shae] When did you come to this strange country?
Shae: When I was thirteen.
Varys: You were only a child?
Shae: I stopped being a child when I was nine. My mother made sure of that.
Varys: You've been a good influence on our mutual friend, you know. [Shae permits herself a smile] He used to drink from sun-down to sun-up, visit three brothels a night, gamble away his father's money. Now it's just the drinking.
Shae: [bitterly] And now I'm his wife's servant. I brush her hair and clip her nails and empty her chamber pot.
Varys: She is a sweet young thing. None of this is her fault.
Shae: [angrily] I love that girl. I would kill for her. Do you think that makes it easier for me?

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
Balon Greyjoy: [reading a letter] "Balon Greyjoy, Lord of the Iron Islands and invader of the North. I give you until the full moon to order all ironborn scum out of the North and back to those shit-stained rocks you call a home. On the first night of the full moon, I will hunt down every islander still in our lands and flay them living the way I flayed the 20 ironborn scum I found at Winterfell. In the box you'll find a special gift: Theon's favorite toy. He cried when I took it away from him."
[Balon stops reading and looks into the box, containing Theon's penis]]
Balon Greyjoy: "Leave the North now or more boxes will follow with more Theon. Signed Ramsay Snow, natural-born son of Roose Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort and Warden of the North." [to Yara] Get that out of my sight.
[Yara stares at him is disbelief]
Balon Greyjoy: Theon disobeyed my orders. The boy is a fool. [indicates the box] He cannot further the Greyjoy line. I will not give up the lands I have seized, the strongholds I have taken. Get this away from me.
Yara Greyjoy: He's your son.
Balon Greyjoy: Son? He's not a man anymore.
Yara Greyjoy: He's your son. He's my brother. He's a Greyjoy.
Balon Greyjoy: Watch yourself. I've made my decision.
Yara Greyjoy: And I've made mine. I'm going to pick the fastest ship in our fleet. I'm going to choose the 50 best killers on the Iron Islands. I'm going to sail up the Narrow Sea all the way to the Weeping Water. I'm going to march on the Dreadfort. I'm going to find my little brother and I'm going to bring him home.

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
Samwell Tarly: I know how this must look. [remembers Aemon is blind] What I meant was-
Gilly: I swear to you, my lord--
Maester Aemon: I'm not a lord, my dear. Not for many, many years. Every man who joins the Night's Watch renounces all former titles. Among other things. What is your name?
Gilly: Gilly.
Maester Aemon: Ah, for the gillyflower. Lovely.
Gilly: Yes, my-
Samwell Tarly: Maester.
Gilly: Master.
Samwell Tarly: Maester.
Maester Aemon: And the child?
Samwell Tarly: She hasn't chosen a name yet.
Gilly: His name is Sam.
Maester Aemon: Tarly... do you remember the oath you swore when you joined this order?
Samwell Tarly: He's not my child, Maester Aemon. She's one of Craster's wives. I remember every word of the oath. Night gathers and my watch begins. I am the shield that guards the realms of men. The realms of men. That means her as well as us. We didn't build 500 miles of ice walls 700 feet high to keep out men. The night is gathering, Maester Aemon. I've seen it. It's coming for all of us.
Maester Aemon: Gilly, you and your son will be our guests for the time being. We certainly cannot send you back beyond the Wall.
Gilly: Thank you... Maester. I can cook and clean and I can-
Maester Aemon: Good. Samwell, fetch a quill and inkwell. I hope your penmanship is better than your swordplay.
Samwell Tarly: Miles better.
Maester Aemon: We had 44 ravens at last count. Make sure they're all fed. Every one of them flies tonight.

  --  Mhysa [3.10]
%
Bronn: Some accomplished diplomacy that was. Now where?
Tyrion: We must find Prince Oberyn before he kills somebody or several somebodies.
Bronn: How do you plan on finding a single Dornishman in a city this big?
Tyrion: You're famous for fucking half of Westeros. You just arrived at the capital after two weeks of bad road, where would you go?
Bronn: I'd probably go to sleep but...I'm getting old.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
First Lannister soldier : You lost, friend?
Oberyn Martell: Forgive me for staring...I don't see many Lannisters where I'm from.
First Lannister soldier: [smirks] I don't see many Dornishmen in the capital.
Oberyn Martell: [knowingly] We don't like the smell! [laughs, as Ellaria arrives and tries to draw him away]
Ellaria Sand: Come with me, lover...
Second Lannister soldier: ([assumes Ellaria is a whore]) Gods, look at this one!
Olyvar: Sirs, if you follow me I'll arrange for a private room-
Second Lannister soldier: Why are you wasting a woman like this on a Dornishman? Bring him a shaved goat and a bottle of olive oil! [laughs dismissively; Olyvar looks nervous, Oberyn smiles and steps forward as Ellaria watches]
Oberyn Martell: Do you know why all the world hates a Lannister? [both soldiers stand up, their whores hurriedly exit] You think your gold... and your lions, and your gold lions make you better than everyone. [the second soldier eyes his sword on the table] May I tell you a secret? You're not a golden lion. You're just a pink little man who's far too slow on the draw. [after a long beat, the second soldier makes a grab for his sword, but Oberyn instantly rams a dagger through his wrist, skewering his arm to the table. The soldier screams in agony; the first soldier half-draws his sword, but hesitates as Oberyn leans close to his companion] Long sword is a bad option in close quarters. [looks to the first soldier] When I pull my blade, your friend starts bleeding, quite a lot, I'm afraid; so many veins in the wrist. [he twists the dagger slightly, causing the soldier to scream again] He'll live if you get him help, straight away. So... [bares his teeth into a grin as Tyrion Lannister enters] Decisions.
Tyrion Lannister: Prince Oberyn! Forgive the intrusion, we heard there might be...[he breaks off as Oberyn wrenches his dagger free, causing the soldier to scream again] ...trouble. [The first soldier hastily drags his wounded friend out of the brothel]
Oberyn Martell: [to Ellaria] Apologies, my love. [he and Ellaria begin kissing passionately, while Oberyn and Bronn look on awkwardly]
Tyrion Lannister: I'm here to welcome you to the capital... [Eventually, Ellaria and Oberyn acknowledge his presence]
Oberyn Martell: [indicates Ellaria] Ellaria Sand, my paramour. [to Ellaria, gesturing at Tyrion] The King's own uncle Imp, Tyrion, son of Tywin...Lannister.
Tyrion Lannister: If there's anything I can do to make your stay in King's Landing more--
Oberyn Martell: [talking over him, to Bronn] And what are you, his hired killer?
Bronn: It started that way, aye. Now I'm a knight.
Oberyn Martell: How did that come to pass?
Bronn: Killed the right people, I suppose. [Oberyn grins, he and Bronn laugh, Tyrion joins in quickly]
Oberyn Martell: We'll need a few more girls. [Bronn nods while Tyrion shakes his head, Oberyn raises an eyebrow] You don't partake?
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, I partook, now I'm married. [pause] Prince Oberyn--a word, if I may, in private?

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Oberyn Martell: It seems I visited the Lannister brothel by mistake.
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, they take all kinds.
Oberyn Martell: Even Dornishmen.
Tyrion Lannister: The King is very grateful that you traveled all this way for his wedding.
Oberyn Martell: Ah, let us speak truth here; Joffrey is insulted. I am only the second son, after all.
Tyrion Lannister: Well, speaking as a fellow second son, I have grown rather used to being the family insult. [Oberyn chuckles] Why did you come to King's Landing, Prince Oberyn?
Oberyn Martell: I was invited to the royal wedding.
Tyrion Lannister: I thought we were speaking truth.
Oberyn Martell: [beat] The last time I was in the capital was many years ago. Another wedding. My sister Elia and Rhaegar Targaryen, the last dragon. My sister loved him. She bore his children. Swaddled them, rocked them, fed them at her own breast, Elia wouldn't let the wet nurse touch them. And beautiful, noble Rhaegar Targaryen...left her for another woman. That started a war and the war ended right here when your father's army took the city.
Tyrion Lannister: [hesitantly] I wasn't actually present-
Oberyn Martell: They butchered those children. My nephew and niece. Carved them up and wrapped them in Lannister cloaks. And my sister, you know what they did to her? [Tyrion doesn't answer; Oberyn lifts his chin with a finger until their eyes are locked] I'm asking you a question.
Tyrion Lannister: I've heard rumors. [shoves Oberyn's hand away]
Oberyn Martell: [chuckles coldly] So have I. The one I keep hearing is that Ser Gregor Clegane, the Mountain, raped Elia and split her in half with his greatsword.
Tyrion Lannister: I wasn't there. I don't know what happened--
Oberyn Martell: If the Mountain killed my sister, your father gave the order. [beat] Tell your father I'm here. And tell him the Lannisters aren't the only ones who pay their debts. [Oberyn exits, Tyrion watching him apprehensively]

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Jorah Mormont: They're dragons, Khaleesi. They can't be tamed...not even by their mother.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Tyrion Lannister: I swore to protect you. My lady, I am your husband. Let me help you.
Sansa Stark: [bitter and tearful] How can you help me?!
Tyrion Lannister: I don't know, but I can try.
Sansa Stark: I lie awake all night, staring at the canopy, thinking about how they died.
Tyrion Lannister: I could get essence of nightshade to help you sleep...
Sansa Stark: Do you know what they did to my brother? How they sewed his direwolf's head onto his body? And my mother? They say they cut her throat to the bone and threw her body in the river.
Tyrion Lannister: What happened to your family was a terrible crime. I didn't know your brother; he seemed like a good man but I didn't know him. Your mother, on the other hand, I admired her. She wanted to have me executed but I admired her. She was a strong woman; she was fierce when it came to protecting her children. Sansa, your mother would want you to carry on.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Alliser Thorne: So you admit you murdered Qhorin Halfhand?
Jon Snow: I didn't murder him.
Alliser Thorne: No? You put your sword through a brother of the Night's Watch. What do you call that?
Jon Snow: He wanted me to kill him.
Janos Slynt: A bastard son of a traitor. What would you expect?
Jon Snow: The Halfhand believed our only chance to stop Mance was to get a man inside his army.
Alliser Thorne: Don't talk about the Halfhand as if you knew him. He was my brother.
Jon Snow: Then you'd know he'd do anything to defend the Wall. The free folk would have boiled him alive, but letting me kill him--
Janos Slynt: The free folk? Listen to him. He even talks like a wildling now.
Jon Snow: Aye, I talk like a wildling. I ate with the wildlings. I climbed the Wall with the wildlings. I...I laid with a wildling girl.
Janos Slynt: [glances at the others] You admit to breaking your vows, then?
Jon Snow: I do.
Janos Slynt: The law is the law. The boy must die.
Maester Aemon: If we beheaded every ranger who lay with a girl, the Wall would be manned by headless men.
Alliser Thorne: There's a difference between sneaking off to the Mole's Town brothel and sleeping with the enemy.
Jon Snow: While we sit here, debating which rules I broke, Mance Rayder marches on the Wall with an army of a hundred thousand.
Alliser Thorne: Impossible. You can't get fifty wildlings together before they start killing each other.
Jon Snow: One hundred thousand. He's united the Thenns, the Hornfoots, the ice-river clans, there's giants fighting for him.
Janos Slynt: Giants? [snorts and starts to laugh before noticing the look on Ser Alliser's face]
Jon Snow: Have you ever been beyond the Wall, ser?
Janos Slynt: I commanded the City Watch of King's Landing, boy.
Jon Snow: And now you're here. You must not have been very good at your job.
Janos Slynt: [jumps to his feet] How dare you?!
Jon Snow: There's a band of wildlings south of the Wall already, led by Tormund Giantsbane. I killed their warg and three others. They shot me full of arrows. Their orders are to attack Castle Black from the south when Mance hits it from the north. The signal for the attack will be a bonfire. Mance said it would be the greatest fire the North has ever seen. That's the truth. All the truth. [Slynt unceremoniously seats himself] Do you intend to execute me or am I free to go?
Maester Aemon: None of us are free. We are men of the Night's Watch. But we won't be taking your head today, Jon Snow.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Joffrey Baratheon: Ser Jaime Lannister. Someone forgot to write down all your great deeds.
Jaime Lannister: There's still time.
Joffrey Baratheon: Is there? For a 40-year-old knight with one hand? How can you protect me with that?
Jaime Lannister: I use my left hand now, Your Grace. Makes for more of a contest.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Arya Stark: When am I going to get a horse of my own?
Sandor Clegane: The little lady wants a pony.
Arya Stark: The little lady wants away from your stench.
Sandor Clegane: Horses aren't easy to come by. Even if they were, you think I'm gonna put you on your own horse? Watch the only thing of value I've got in the world ride away?
Arya Stark: Why don't you have any money? Didn't you steal anything from Joffrey before you left?
Sandor Clegane: No.
Arya Stark: You're not very smart, are you?
Sandor Clegane: I'm not a thief.
Arya Stark: You're fine with murdering little boys, but thieving is beneath you?
Sandor Clegane: A man's got to have a code.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Sandor Clegane: Five horses, five men. More than I feel like killing on an empty stomach.
Arya Stark: I know him. The small one. His name is Polliver. He captured us and took us to Harrenhal. He killed Lommy.
Sandor Clegane: What the fuck's a Lommy?
Arya Stark: He was my friend. Polliver stole my sword and put it right through his neck. He's still got it.
Sandor Clegane: Got what?
Arya Stark: My sword Needle.
Sandor Clegane: Needle? Of course you named your sword.
Arya Stark: Lots of people name their swords.
Sandor Clegane: Lots of cunts.

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Arya Stark: [holding a wounded Polliver at swordpoint with Needle, which she has just reclaimed from him] Something wrong with your leg, boy? [repeating Polliver's words from his murder of Lommy and theft of Needle]
Polliver: [confused] What? What do you mean?
Arya Stark: Can you walk? I got to carry you?
Polliver: Carry me?
Arya Stark: [holds up Needle and examines it] Fine little blade. Maybe I'll pick my teeth with it.
[Polliver's eyes widen with recognition just before Arya stabs him through the throat, exactly as Polliver had previously done to Lommy]

  --  Two Swords [4.01]
%
Tyrion: Your new hand, it's nicer than the old one. Wouldn't you agree, Pod?
Podrick: Is it solid gold?
Tyrion: Gilded steel. [to Jaime] You're not eating. Why is no one eating? My wife wastes away and my brother starves himself.
Jaime: I'm not hungry.
Tyrion: You lost a hand, not a stomach. Try the boar. Cersei can't get enough of it since one killed Robert for her. A toast, to the proud Lannister children. The dwarf, the cripple, and the mother of madness.

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Melisandre: There is only one hell...the one we live in now.

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Joffrey: Such a great sword should have a name. What shall I call her?
Man 1: Stormbringer!
Man 2: Terminus!
Man 3: Widow's Wail!
Man 4: Wolfsbane!
Joffrey: Widow's Wail, I like that. Hah... Every time I use it, it'll be like cutting off Ned Stark's head all over again.

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Oberyn: Hello!
Tyrion: Hello.
Oberyn: Not you.

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
[Ramsay and a shaking, semi-catatonic Theon/Reek meet with Roose]
Ramsay: Father.
Roose: What did you do to him?
Ramsay: I trained him. He was a slow learner, but he learned.
Roose: You flayed him.
Ramsay: Peeled a few bits. Removed a few others.
Roose: This was Balon Greyjoy's son and heir.
Ramsay: We've been flaying our enemies for a thousand years. The flayed man is on our banners.
Roose: My banners, not yours. You're not a Bolton, you're a Snow. Tywin Lannister has given me the North, but he won't lift a finger to help me take it. As long as the Ironborn hold Moat Cailin, our armies are trapped south of the Neck. Theon was a valuable hostage, not your plaything. I wanted to trade him for Moat Cailin.
Ramsay: I already asked. Lord Greyjoy refused. Savages have-
Roose: You sent terms to Balon Greyjoy without my consent?
Ramsay: You made me Acting Lord of the Dreadfort. I acted.
Roose: I had to smuggle myself into my own lands thanks to the Greyjoys. I needed Theon. I needed him whole.
Ramsay: Theon was our enemy. But Reek? Reek will never betray us.
Roose: I place far too much trust in you.
Ramsay: Reek, how could you let me stand before my father unshaven? It's disrespectful.
Theon/Reek: Sorry, my lord.
Ramsay: [to Locke] Give him the razor.
[Ramsay sits in a chair and Theon/Reek is handed a razor]
Ramsay: I'm not a Bolton, father. What does it matter? Go on, Reek. A nice, close shave.
[Reek begins carefully shaving Ramsay]
Ramsay: Reek, tell father, where are Bran and Rickon Stark?
Theon/Reek: I don't know, my lord.
Roose: You murdered them and displayed their corpses at Winterfell.
Ramsay: Reek, did you murder the Stark boys?
Theon/Reek: No, my lord. Just two farm boys.
Ramsay: And crisped them so no one would know.
Theon/Reek: Yes, my lord.
Ramsay: The Starks have always ruled the North. If Bran and Rickon are alive, the country will rally to their side now that Robb Stark is gone.
[Theon/Reek stops shaving]
Ramsay: Oh, that's right, Reek. Robb Stark is dead. Sorry. I know he was like a brother to you, but my father put a knife through his heart. How do you feel about that?
[Theon/Reek pauses a moment but then resumes and completes the shave]
Roose: You ready for a hunt?
Locke: Always.
Roose: Find those boys and I'll give a thousand acres and a holdfast.
Locke: Your pet rat have any thoughts on which way they went after Winterfell?
Theon/Reek: Jon Snow is at Castle Black.
Locke: Who the fuck's Jon Snow?
Roose: Their bastard brother. He could be sheltering them. He may know where they are.
Ramsay: Even if he doesn't, he's half Stark himself. He could be a threat.
Roose: You want to prove yourself a Bolton? Gather whatever men you can and ride for Moat Cailin. Bring this creature of yours. Maybe he'll be of some use. Take the Moat for the family - for our family - and I'll reconsider your position.

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Oberyn Martell: Your Grace. Lord Tywin.
Tywin Lannister: Prince Oberyn.
Oberyn Martell: I don't believe you have met Ellaria. This is the Lord Hand Tywin Lannister and Cersei Lannister the Queen Regent. I suppose it is former Queen Regent now. Lord Hand and Lady Cersei, Ellaria Sand.
Ellaria Sand: My lord. My lady.
Tywin Lannister: Charmed.
Cersei Lannister: Can't say I've ever met a Sand before. (Ellaria glares at her)
Ellaria Sand: We are everywhere in Dorne. I have 10,000 brothers and sisters.
Oberyn Martell: Bastards are born of passion, aren't they? We don't despise them in Dorne.
Cersei Lannister: No? How tolerant of you.
Oberyn Martell: I expect it is a relief, Lady Cersei, giving up your regal responsibilities. Wearing the crown for so many years must have left your neck a bit crooked.
Cersei Lannister: I suppose you'll never know, Prince Oberyn. It's a shame your older brother couldn't attend the wedding.
Tywin Lannister: (hastily) Please give him our regards. With any luck, the gout will abate with time and he will be able to walk again.
Oberyn Martell: They call it the rich man's disease. A wonder you don't have it, Lord Tywin.
Tywin Lannister: Noblemen in my part of the country don't enjoy the same lifestyle as our counterparts in Dorne.
Oberyn Martell: People everywhere have their differences. In some places the highborn frown upon those of low birth. In other places, the rape and murder of women and children is considered...distasteful. What a fortunate thing for you, former Queen Regent, that your daughter Myrcella has been sent to live in the latter sort of place. (Cersei's smile vanishes)

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Joffrey: Well fought, well fought! Here you are champion's purse. You know, you're not really the champion yet, are you? A ture champion defeats all the challengers. Surely there are others who still dare to challenge my reign? Uncle? How about you? I'm sure they have a spare costume.
[Tyrion smiles and stands up.]
Tyrion: One taste of combat was enough for me, Your Grace. I would like to keep what remains of my face. I think you should fight. This was but a poor imitation of your own bravery on the field of battle. I speak as a firsthand witness. Climb down from the high table with your new Valyrian sword and show everyone how a true king wins his throne. Be careful though. [Nods towards the champion dwarf.] This one is clearly mad with lust. It would be a tragedy for the king to lose his virtue hours before his wedding night.
[[Enraged and humiliated, Joffrey walks over to Tyrion and empties his goblet over his uncle's head.]
Tyrion: Fine vintage. A shame that it spilled.
Joffrey: It did not spill.
Margaery Tyrell: My love, come back to me. It's time for my father's toast.
Joffrey: [He does so] Well, how does he expect me to toast without wine? [To Tyrion] Uncle, you can be my cupbearer, seeing as you're too cowardly to fight.
Tyrion: Your Grace does me a fine honor.
Joffrey: [Dryly] It's not meant as an honor.
[A brief pause, and Tyrion gets up to take the cup, but Joffrey drops it. As Tyrion bends to pick it up, Joffrey kicks it underneath a table. Everyone stares with disbelief]
Joffrey: Bring me my goblet.
[Tyrion goes underneath the table searching for the goblet. Sansa picks it up and hands it to Tyrion, who, in turn, hands it to Joffrey]
Joffrey: What good is an empty cup? Fill it. [Tyrion fills the cup with wine and hands it to Joffrey] Kneel. [Tyrion looks at him] Kneel before your king. [Pause] Kneel. [Pause as Tyrion glares at Joffrey; Getting angry] I said... KNEEL!! [Tyrion keeps glaring at him]
Margaery Tyrell: Oh, look, the pie!

  --  The Lion and the Rose [4.02]
%
Tywin Lannister: Your brother is dead. Do you know what that means? [Tommen hesitates in answering] I'm not trying to trick you.
Tommen Baratheon: It means I'll become king.
Tywin Lannister: Yes, you will become king. What kind of king do you think you will be?
Tommen Baratheon: A good king?
Tywin Lannister: I think so as well; you have the right temperament for it. But what makes a good king, hmm? What is a good king's single most important quality?
Cersei Lannister: This is hardly the place or the time-!
Tommen Baratheon: Holiness?
Tywin Lannister: Baelor the Blessed was holy and pious. He built this sept. He also named a six year old boy High Septon because he thought the boy could work miracles. He ended up fasting himself into an early grave because food was of this world and this world was sinful.
Tommen Baratheon: Justice?
Tywin Lannister: A good king must be just. Orys the First was just; everyone applauded his reforms, nobles and commoners alike, but he wasn't just for long. He was murdered in his sleep after less than a year by his own brother. Was that truly just of him, to abandon his subjects to an evil that he was too gullible to recognize?
Tommen Baratheon: No. What about strength?
Tywin Lannister: Yes, strength. King Robert was strong; he won the rebellion and crushed the Targaryen dynasty. And he attended three Small Council meetings in seventeen years of ruling, and he spent his time whoring, hunting and drinking until the last two killed him. So, we have a man who starves himself to death, a man who lets his own brother murder him and a man who thinks winning and ruling are the same thing. What do they all lack?
Tommen Baratheon: Wisdom?
Tywin Lannister: Yes!
Tommen Baratheon: Wisdom is what makes a good king.
Tywin Lannister: Yes. But what is wisdom? A house with great wealth and fertile lands asks you for your protection against another house with a strong navy that could one day oppose you. How do you know which choice is wise and which is not? Any experience of treasuries and granaries? Or shipyards and soldiers?
Tommen Baratheon: No.
Tywin Lannister: Of course not. A wise king knows what he knows and what he doesn't. You're young. A wise young king listens to his councilors and heeds their advice until he comes of age. And the wisest kings continue to listen to them long afterwards. Your brother was not a wise king. Your brother was not a good king. If he had been, he'd probably still be alive.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
Margaery Tyrell: So am I the queen?
Olenna Tyrell: More than you were with Renly. Less than you would have been if Joffrey had done you the courtesy of consummating the marriage before dying. In any case, this would not be an opportune moment to press the issue.
Margaery Tyrell: Clawing at his own throat, looking to his mother to make it stop... it was horrible.
Olenna Tyrell: The world is overflowing with horrible things. But they're all a tray of cakes next to death. They brought me your grandfather's body when he died, you know? Made me look at it.
Margaery Tyrell: What was it like?
Olenna Tyrell: They took me to the Great Hall and there he was. The man I'd married and suffered to father my children. A great doughy lump I'd sat next to at endless dinners and tedious gatherings. There he was... lying on a table.
Margaery Tyrell: One of my husbands preferred the company of men and was stabbed through the heart. Another was happiest torturing animals and was poisoned at our wedding feast. I must be cursed.
Olenna Tyrell: Nonsense. Your circumstances have improved markedly. You may not have enjoyed watching him die, but you enjoyed it more than you would have enjoyed being married to him, I can promise you that.
Margaery Tyrell: But I would have been the queen.
Olenna Tyrell: Our alliance with the Lannisters remains every bit as necessary to them as it is unpleasant for us. You did wonderful work on Joffrey. The next one should be easier.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
Old Man: We ask the Father to judge us with mercy accepting our human frailty. We ask the Mother to bless our crops so we may feed ourselves and all who come to our door. We ask the Warrior to give us courage in these days of strife and turmoil. We ask the Maiden to protect Sally's virtue to keep her from the clutches of depravity.
Sandor Clegane: You got to do all seven of the fuckers?
Arya Stark: Father!
Old Man: We ask the Smith to strengthen our hands and our backs so we may finish the work required of us. We ask the Crone to guide us on our journey from darkness to darkness.
Sandor Clegane: And we ask the Stranger not to kill us in our beds tonight for no damn reason at all.
Arya Stark: I'm so sorry. [tastes the stew] Really good.
Old Man: Did you fight at the Twins?
Sandor Clegane: Call that a fight? Slaughtering livestock more like.
Old Man: The Red Wedding they're calling it. Walder Frey committed sacrilege that day. He shared bread and salt with the Starks. He offered them guest right.
Sandor Clegane: Guest right don't mean much anymore.
Old Man: It means something to me. The gods will have their vengeance. Frey will burn in the seventh hell for what he did.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
Davos Seaworth: Westeros is not the world, Your Grace. We need to look east for ships and men. 10,000 skilled soldiers fight for the Golden Company.
Stannis Baratheon: [disgusted] The Golden Company?
Davos Seaworth: They've never broken a contract.
Stannis Baratheon: They're sellswords.
Davos Seaworth: We're willing to use blood magic to put you on the throne, but we're not willing to pay men to fight? Now the Red Woman's magic is real. Her visions and prophecies may be, too, but I've never heard of visions and prophecies winning a war. Soldiers win wars. Soldiers on the ground. It's dirty on the ground.
Stannis Baratheon: We don't have any gold.
Davos Seaworth: Not yet.
Stannis Baratheon: If I do not press my claim, my claim will be forgotten. I will not become a page in someone else's history book. I'm running out of time, Ser Davos. Which means you're running out of time.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
Oberyn Martell: I'm sorry about your grandson.
Tywin Lannister: Are you?
Oberyn Martell: I don't believe that a child is responsible for the sins of his father- or his grandfather. An awful way to die...
Tywin Lannister: Which way is that?
Oberyn Martell: Are you interrogating me, Lord Tywin?
Tywin Lannister: Some believe the king choked.
Oberyn Martell: Some believe the sky is blue because we live inside the eye of a blue-eyed giant. The king was poisoned.
Tywin Lannister: I hear you studied poisons at the Citadel.
Oberyn Martell: I did. This is why I know.
Tywin Lannister: Your hatred for my family is...rather well known. You arrive in the capital, an expert in poisoning; some days later, my grandson dies of poisoning.
Oberyn Martell: Rather suspicious. Why haven't you thrown me in a dungeon?
Tywin Lannister: You spoke with Tyrion in this very brothel on the day you arrived. What did you discuss?
Oberyn Martell: [amused] You think we conspired together?
Tywin Lannister: What did you discuss?
Oberyn Martell: The death of my sister. [approaches Tywin menacingly]
Tywin Lannister: For which you blame me.
Oberyn Martell: [angrily] She was raped and murdered by the Mountain. The Mountain follows your orders. Of course I blame you.
Tywin Lannister: [cocks an eyebrow] I stand before you unarmed, unguarded. Should I be worried?
Oberyn Martell: [smiles coldly] You are unarmed and unguarded because you know me better than that. I'm a man of reason; if I slit your throat today, I will be drawn and quartered tomorrow.
Tywin Lannister: Men at war commit all kinds of crimes, without their superiors' knowledge.
Oberyn Martell: So you're denying involvement in Elia's murder?
Tywin Lannister: Categorically. [long pause, then Oberyn turns away]
Oberyn Martell: I would like to speak with the Mountain.
Tywin Lannister: [raises his eyebrows again, smiles] I'm sure he would enjoy speaking with you.
Oberyn Martell: He might not enjoy it as he thinks he would.
Tywin Lannister: I could arrange for this meeting-
Oberyn Martell: But you want something in return.
Tywin Lannister: There will be a trial for my son and as custom dictates, three judges will render a verdict. I will preside, Mace Tyrell will serve as the second judge and I would like you to be the third.
Oberyn Martell: Why?
Tywin Lannister: Not long ago, the Tyrells sided with Renly Baratheon, declared themselves enemies of the throne; now they are our strongest allies-
Oberyn Martell: Well, you made the Tyrell girl a Queen. Asking me to judge at your son's trial isn't quite as tempting.
Tywin Lannister: I will also invite you to sit on the Small Council, to serve as one of the new king's principal advisors. [Oberyn sips his wine, then turns around]
Oberyn Martell: I never realized you had such respect for Dorne, Lord Tywin.
Tywin Lannister: We are not Seven Kingdoms until Dorne returns to the fold. The king is dead, the Greyjoys are in open rebellion, a wildling army marches on the Wall and in the East, a Targaryen girl has three dragons. Before long, she will turn her eyes to Westeros. Only the Dornish managed to resist Aegon Targaryen and his dragons.
Oberyn Martell: [grins] You're saying you need us? That must be hard for you to admit.
Tywin Lannister: We need each other. You help me serve justice to the King's assassins... and I will help you serve justice to Elia's. [Offers Oberyn his hand to shake]

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
A single rider has ridden out to meet Daenerys and her army
Daenerys Targaryen: What is he doing?
Barristan Selmy: I believe he means to...
[The Mereen Champion pisses on the ground, while shouting in Valyrian]
Missandei: He says that we're an army of men without man parts. He claims you are no woman at all, but a man who... hides his cock in his own arsehole.
Barristan Selmy: Ignore him, Your Grace. These are meaningless words.
Jorah Mormont: They're not meaningless if half the city you intend to take is listening to them.
Daenerys Targaryen:I have something to say to the people of Meereen. [points to the shouting champion] First, I will need this one to be quiet.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
After Daario has effortless dispatched Mereen's champion, Daenerys addresses the slaves of Meereen
Daenerys Targaryen: I am Daenerys Stormborn. Your Masters may have told you lies about me, or they may have told you nothing. It does not matter. I have nothing to say to them. I only speak to you. First, I went to Astapor. Those who were slaves in Astapor, now stand behind me, free. Next I went to Yunkai. Those who were slaves in Yunkai, now stand behind me, free. Now I have come to Meereen. I am not your enemy. Your enemy is beside you. Your enemy steals and murders your children. Your enemy has nothing for you but chains and suffering, and commands. I do not bring you commands. I bring you a choice. And I bring your enemies what they deserve.

  --  Breaker of Chains [4.03]
%
Teenage slave: You heard her. She said she came to free us!
Old slave: You're a fool. The Masters are too strong.
Teenage Slave: She will protect us. She defeated the Masters' champion. She has a great army. You want to live the rest of your life in chains?
Adult slave: I want to live. You saw what they did to those children. What do you think they'll do to us?
Old slave: I've been through two slave revolts, boy. They always end the same way: the Masters in power and the slaves dead.
Grey Worm: All men must die. But I promise you, a single day of freedom is worth more than a lifetime in chains.
Old slave: Who are you?
Grey Worm: This one is called Grey Worm. I was taken as a baby by the Masters of Astapor, raised and trained as Unsullied. Now I fight for Daenerys, the Mother of Dragons and Breaker of Chains.
Old slave: You are Unsullied? They taught you how to fight before you could walk. We are not soldiers!
Adult slave: We have no training, no weapons.
Grey Worm and the Unsullied dump bags filled with swords on the ground.
Grey Worm: There are three slaves in this city for every Master. No one can give you your freedom, brothers. If you want it, you must take it.

  --  Oathkeeper [4.04]
%
Daenerys Targaryen: Remind me, Ser Jorah, how many children did the Great Masters nail to mileposts?
Jorah Mormont: 163, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: Yes, that was it. [nods to the Unsullied]
Barristan Semly: Your Grace, may I have a word? The city is yours. All these people, they're your subjects now. Sometimes it is better to answer injustice with mercy.
Daenerys Targaryen: I will answer injustice with justice.

  --  Oathkeeper [4.04]
%
Jaime Lannister: What the hell was that?
Bronn: That was me knocking your ass to the dirt with your own hand.
Jaime Lannister: You're a rare talent. When you're fighting cripples, anyway.
Bronn: You learned to fight like a good little boy. I'll bet that thrust through the Mad King's back was pretty as a picture. You want to fight pretty or you want to win?
Jaime Lannister: You talk to my brother this way?
Bronn: All the time. He got used to it.
Jaime Lannister: Do you think he did it?
Bronn: No. Oh, he hated the little twat, sure. But who didn't? And poison's not his style. Or murder, for that matter. You want to know for sure, why don't you ask him? You haven't been to see him yet, eh?
Jaime Lannister: We're done for today.
Bronn: Your brother ever tell you how I came into his service?
Jaime Lannister: You stood for him in his trial by combat at the Eyrie.
Bronn: Aye. But only when Lady Arryn demanded the trial take place that day. You were his first choice. He named you for his champion because he knew you would ride day and night to come fight for him. You gonna fight for him now?

  --  Oathkeeper [4.04]
%
Jaime Lannister: To tell you the truth, this isn't so bad. Four walls. A pot to piss in. I was chained to a wooden post covered in my own shit for months.
Tyrion Lannister: Is that supposed to make me feel better?
Jaime Lannister: Maybe a bit. I'm sorry I didn't come sooner.
Tyrion Lannister: It's complicated, yes. So how is our sister?
Jaime Lannister: How do you think? Her son died in her arms.
Tyrion Lannister: Her son?
Jaime Lannister: Don't. [Pause] You know what's coming?
Tyrion Lannister: My trial for regicide. Yes, I know. I know the whole bloody country thinks I'm guilty. I know that one of my three judges has wished me dead more times than I can count. And that judge is my father. As for Cersei, well, she's probably working on a way to avoid a trial altogether by having me killed.
Jaime Lannister: Now that you mention it, she did ask.
Tyrion Lannister: So, should I turn around and close my eyes?
Jaime Lannister: Depends. Did you do it?
Tyrion Lannister: The Kingslayer brothers. You like it? I like it. You're really asking if I killed your son?
Jaime Lannister: Are you really asking if I'd kill my brother? How can I help you?
Tyrion Lannister: Well, you could set me free.
Jaime Lannister: You know I can't.
Tyrion Lannister: Then there's really nothing else to say.
Jaime Lannister: What do you want me to do? Kill the guards? Sneak you out of the city in the back of a cart? I'm the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
Tyrion Lannister: Sorry, I'd forgotten. I'd hate for you to do something inappropriate.
Jaime Lannister: Inappropriate? You're accused of killing the king. Freeing you is treason.
Tyrion Lannister: Except I didn't do it.
Jaime Lannister: Which is why we're having a trial.
Tyrion Lannister: A trial. If the killer threw himself before the Iron Throne, confessed to his crimes, and gave irrefutable evidence of his guilt, it wouldn't matter to Cersei. She won't rest until my head's on a spike.
Jaime Lannister: Not just yours. She's offering a knighthood to whomever finds Sansa Stark.
Tyrion Lannister: Sansa couldn't have done this.
Jaime Lannister: She had more reason than anyone in the Seven Kingdoms. Do you think it's a coincidence she disappeared the same night Joffrey died?
Tyrion Lannister: No, but... Sansa's not a killer. Not yet, anyway.

  --  Oathkeeper [4.04]
%
High Septon: May the Warrior grant him courage and protect him in these dark times. May the Smith grant him strength, that he might bear this heavy burden. And may the Crone, she that knows the fate of all men, show him the path he must walk and guide him through the dark places that lie ahead. In the light of the Seven, I now proclaim Tommen of the House Baratheon, First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms. [crowns Tommen] Long may he reign!

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
(Cersei comes to join Margaery, who eyes her warily)
Margaery Tyrell: (coolly) Your Grace?
Cersei Lannister: (they both watch her son Tommen) There he is.
Margaery Tyrell: Long may he reign.
Cersei Lannister: 'Long may he reign.'
Margaery Tyrell: He sits the Throne like he was born to it.
Cersei Lannister: Yes. He wasn't, though, was he?
Margaery Tyrell: No, he wasn't.
Cersei Lannister: You still mourn for Joffrey? (touches Margaery's black mantle)
Margaery Tyrell: He was my husband, my King.
Cersei Lannister: He would have been your nightmare.
Margaery Tyrell: (pause) Your Grace, I-
Cersei Lannister: You knew exactly what he was. I did, too. You never love anything in the world the way you love your first child. It doesn't matter what they do. And what he did, it shocked me. Do you think I'm easily shocked?
Margaery Tyrell: No.
Cersei Lannister: The things he did shocked me. (Margaery glances at her, then they both look towards Tommen) He's only a boy. A good boy, a decent boy, he always has been. Who was the last decent king, I wonder?... He could be the first man to sit on that throne in fifty years to actually deserve it.
Margaery Tyrell: (nods) It would be some consolation, wouldn't it? For all the horror that put him there.
Cersei Lannister: He will need help... if he's going to rule well. (looks pointedly at Margaery)
Margaery Tyrell: He has you. (ducks her head respectfully)
Cersei Lannister: A mother is not enough. You're still interested in being Queen, I take it?
Margaery Tyrell: (scoffs) After all that's happened? (Cersei continues looking at her pointedly) It sounds strange, I know, but I haven't given any thought to it. What comes next. (she meets Cersei's gaze) It would be a great honor, of course. But I will have to speak to my father about it. (she watches Mace Tyrell talking to someone in the hall)
Cersei Lannister: Yes, speak to your father. I'll speak to mine. (watches Tywin, standing next to Tommen's throne.)
Margaery Tyrell: (leans close to Cersei conspiratorially) We may be faced with an alarming number of weddings soon. (they both smile, amused) I won't even know what to call you. Sister, or Mother? (Cersei's smile fades as she looks away, remembering her betrothal to Loras)

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Jorah Mormont: Joffrey Baratheon is dead. Murdered at his own wedding. (Daenerys stares at him in amazement)
Barristan Selmy: And we've taken the Meereenese Navy, Your Grace.
Daario Naharis: The Second Sons took the Meereenese Navy.
Daenerys Targaryen: (sharply) Who told you to take their Navy?
Daario Naharis: No-one.
Daenerys Targaryen: So why did you do it?
Daario Naharis: I heard you like ships. (shrugs at Selmy as Daenerys turns away)
Daenerys Targaryen: How many ships?
Barristan Selmy: Ninety-three, Your Grace.
Daenerys Targaryen: How many men can they carry?
Barristan Selmy: Ninety-three hundred, not counting sailors.
Daenerys Targaryen: (looks to Jorah Mormont) Would that be enough to take King's Landing?
Jorah Mormont: The Lannisters have more.
Barristan Selmy: (confidently) They've been fighting Joffrey's mad wars for years. They're tired, dispersed, and now their King is dead. (Daario Naharis nods) 8,000 Unsullied and 2,000 Second Sons sail into Blackwater Bay, storm the gates without warning... (Dany continues to look to Jorah)
Jorah Mormount: It's hard to say. Could be enough... but we're not fighting to make you Queen of King's Landing. Ten thousand men cannot conquer Westeros.
Barristan Selmy: The old Houses will flock to our Queen when she crosses the Narrow Sea.
Jorah Mormount: The old Houses will flock to whichever side they think will win, as they always have. (stands up) There's other news, from Yunkai. Without the Unsullied to enforce your rule, the Wise Masters have re-taken control of the city. They've re-enslaved what freed men have stayed behind and sworn to take revenge against you. (Daenerys turns away) And in Astapor, the council you installed to rule over the city has been overthrown by a butcher named Cleon, who's declared himself 'His Imperial Majesty'.
Daenerys Targaryen: (to her council) Please leave me. (they begin to leave) Not you, Jorah. (Jorah comes back) It appears my liberation of Slaver's Bay isn't going quite as planned.
Jorah Mormont: You could sail for Westeros and leave it all behind. A boy sits on the Iron Throne, a boy whom many believe to be a bastard with no right to it. They have never been more vulnerable.
Daenerys Targaryen: You counceled me against rashness in Qarth. I didn't listen, but all worked out well. (pause) How can I rule seven Kingdoms... if I can't control Slaver's Bay? Why should anyone trust me? Why should anyone follow me?! (turns away)
Jorah Mormont: You're a Targaryen. You're the Mother of Dragons.
Daenerys Targaryen: I need to be more than that. (turns around again) I will not let those I have freed slide back into chains. I will not sail for Westeros.
Jorah Mormont: What, then?
Daenerys Targaryen: I will do what Queens do. I will rule.

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Tywin Lannister: ...When will the wedding take place, in your mind?
Cersei Lannister: As soon as decency permits. After we've allowed Tommen the appropriate time to mourn his brother... and Margaery, to mourn her husband.
Tywin Lannister: A fortnight?
Cersei Lannister: That seems reasonable.
Tywin Lannister: (nods) No jugglers, no jousting dwarves, no seventy-seven-course meals. (Cersie nods assent) And your wedding to Loras?
Cersei Lannister: (glares at him)... Shortly after Tommen's.
Tywin Lannister: (suspicious) Shortly?
Cersei Lannister: (impatiently) A fortnight.
Tywin Lannister: (nods, satisfied) I know you don't like them. (smiles wryly) I didn't like your husband- he used to pat me on the back a lot. I didn't trust him.
Cersei Lannister: We had that in common.
Tywin Lannister: You don't need to make formal alliances with people you trust.
Cersei Lannister: And whom can we trust?
Tywin Lannister: Ourselves, alone. (stands up, pours wine) The Tyrells are our only true rivals in terms of resources- and we need them on our side. (passes Cersei a goblet)
Cersei Lannister: Robert wasn't particularly rich.
Tywin Lannister: (scornfully) Robert had me funding him. (pours himself wine) Wars swallowed gold like a pit in the earth.
Cersei Lannister:... I suppose that explains why we did so well in the last one. (takes a drink)
Tywin Lannister: D'you know how much gold was mined in the Westerlands, this past year?
Cersei Lannister: (deadpan) Haven't a clue.
Tywin Lannister: Go on- your best guess.
Cersei Lannister:... pounds, tons, ounces?
Tywin Lannister: (grimly) Doesn't matter. The answer's the same.
Cersei Lannister: (stares at him)... That can't be.
Tywin Lannister: Our last working goldmine ran dry three years ago.
Cersei Lannister: (pause) Then how do we pay for anything?
Tywin Lannister: The Crown owes the Iron Bank of Braavos a tremendous amount of money. (walks back to his desk)
Cersei Lannister: How much?
Tywin Lannister:... A tremendous amount. (sits down)
Cersei Lannister: ...There must be someone, at the Iron Bank, that you can speak to- come to some arrangement-
Tywin Lannister: (impatiently) The Iron Bank is the Iron Bank; there is no someone. (takes a drink)
Cersei Lannister: (also impatiently) Someone does work there, it is comprised of people-
Tywin Lannister: And a temple is comprised of stones; one stone crumbles, and another takes its' place- and the temple holds its' form, for a thousand years or more. And that's what the Iron Bank is- a temple. We all live in it's shadow, and almost none of us know it. You can't run from them, you can't cheat them, you can't sway them with excuses. If you owe them money, and you don't want to crumble yourself... you pay it back. (pause) Vesting the Tyrells in the Crown will help a great deal, in this respect.
Cersei Lannister: (nods) It's for the good of the family- I understand that. (pause) I'm not sure my brothers do. (drinks)
Tywin Lannister:... I know you're building a strong case against Tyrion- and, as a mother, that is your right. But, as a judge, I cannot discuss the trial with you.
Cersei Lannister: (shrugs hastily) I respect that- we don't need to discuss it. (sets down her goblet, stands up) The Lannister legacy is the only thing that matters. You've started wars to protect this family- turned your back on Jaime for refusing to contribute to it's future... (malice and resentment enter her voice) What does Tyrion deserve, for lighting that future on fire? (She walks out, Tywin watches her)

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Lysa Arryn: What took you so long?
Petyr Baelish: Arranging for the ascension of King Tommen I, extricating Sansa, getting her here alive.
Lysa Arryn: She's here. We've spent more than enough time on her for one evening. Let's get married tonight.
Petyr Baelish: Ought we not... inform the Lords of the Vale about the ceremony?
Lysa Arryn: There's only one Lord of the Vale. The others can all hang. Lurking and simpering on the stairs like buzzards the moment my husband died, trying to get their claws in me.
Petyr Baelish:I do think that we could wait until-
Lysa Arryn: I'm done waiting, Petyr. We had our wedding night many years ago. Or don't you remember?
Petyr Baelish: Like it was yesterday.
Lysa Arryn: What wife would do for you the things I've done for you? What wife would trust you the way I've trusted you? When you gave me those drops and told me to pour them into Jon's wine, my husband's wine- when you told me to write a letter to Cat telling her it was the Lannisters--
[Petyr interrupts Lysa by kissing her passionatly]
Petyr Baelish: The deed is done. Faded into nothing. Only speaking of it can make it real. Tonight it is, then. Let me bathe and dress for the occasion. Once I'm presentable, I'll call on the septon immediately.
[Lysa opens the doors, revealing a septon]
Lysa Arryn: I'm warning you. I'm going to scream when my husband makes love to me. I'm going to scream so loud, they'll hear me clear across the Narrow Sea.

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Oberyn Martell: (As he is writing in the gardens, Cersei appears; as she and her Lannister guardsmen approach, he glances at them and sets down his quill)... Your Grace. (stands up, half-bows)
Cersei Lannister: (smiles) Prince Oberyn. (indicates the paper) Writing letters?
Oberyn Martell: A poem, actually.
Cersei Lannister: (nods) May I show you the gardens?
Oberyn Martell: (smiles wryly) I couldn't very well refuse a royal escort.
Cersei Lannister: (smiles) No, you couldn't. (they walk through the royal gardens, the guards trailing them at a distance) I didn't realize you were a poet.
Oberyn Martell: Not a very good one, I'm afraid.
Cersei Lannister: For your paramour?
Oberyn Martell: (smiles) For one of my daughters.
Cersei Lannister': You have several, don't you?
Oberyn Martell: (smiles) Eight.
Cersei Lannister: (chuckles) Eight? Eight daughters...
Oberyn Martell: The fifth is difficult. I named her after my sister, Elia.
Cersei Lannister: Beautiful name.
Oberyn Martell: Yes- but I can't say it without turning sad. And, after I turn sad... I grow angry.
Cersei Lannister: (raises an eyebrow) Perhaps that's why she's difficult. (pause) The Gods love their stupid jokes, don't they?
Oberyn Martell: Which joke is that?
Cersei Lannister: You're a Prince of Dorne- a legendary fighter, a brilliant man feared throughout Westeros... but you could not save your sister. I am a Lannister- a Queen for nineteen years, daughter of the most powerful man alive... but I could not save my son. What good is power, if you cannot protect the ones you love?
Oberyn Martell: We can avenge them.
Cersei: Yes- we can avenge them. (they reach the coastal cliffs)
Oberyn Martell: (skeptically) You really believe Tyrion murdered your son?
Cersei Lannister: (meets his eyes) I know he did.
Oberyn Martell: Well, we will have a trial, and then we will learn the truth.
Cersei Lannister: We'll have a trial, anyway. (pause) I haven't seen my daughter in over a year.
Oberyn Martell: (smiles) The last time I saw her, she was swimming with two of my girls in the Water Gardens... laughing in the sun.
Cersei Lannister: (nods slowly) I want to believe that. I want to believe... she's happy.
Oberyn Martell: (gently) You have my word. (pause) We don't hurt little girls, in Dorne.
Cersei Lannister: (sadly,bitterly)... Everywhere in the world, they hurt little girls. (Oberyn looks away, unable to deny it; there is an awkward pause) Would you bring her a gift, from me? (Oberyn looks at her) I wasn't there for her Nameday... I don't know when I'll see her again.
Oberyn Martell: Anything at all. (Cersei points to a small ship with gold-striped sails, in the harbor)
Cersei Lannister: The best shipwrights in King's Landing have been working on it for months (smiles tearfully)...Myrcella loves the open water.
Oberyn Martell: I will have it sailed down to Sunspear for her.
Cersei Lannister: (voice breaking) Please tell her... her mother misses her, very much. (She nods to Oberyn and walks away with her escort; Oberyn stares after her with a conflicted expression)

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Lysa Arryn: Your mother always had a sweet tooth, you know?
Sansa Stark: Really?
Lysa Arryn: Oh, yes. At suppertime, she would go straight for honey cakes, candied almonds, custard. Anything sweet. Eventually, your grandfather had to assign a septa to watch her at meals. Cat was the firstborn daughter after all. It was important that she remain desirable so Father could arrange a good match for her and she was starting to get fat.
Sansa Stark: [incredulous] My mother fat? She never let me have my pudding until I'd finished all my proper food.
Lysa Arryn: This is before she married your father and moved to the North. By the time you were born, your father's austerity had become hers. Marriage changes people. [notices Sansa has stopped eating] I didn't mean for you to stop. Go on, enjoy them. How do you like them?
Sansa Stark: They're delicious. Where did you get the lemons? You can't grow them up here.
Lysa Arryn: Oh, gods, no. Petyr had three crates brought all the way from King's Landing. He knew you liked lemon cakes.
Sansa Stark: He's so kind.
Lysa Arryn: He really cares for you. Think where you'd be without him. In their clutches and tried for murder.
Sansa Stark: Yes. I'm very lucky.
Lysa Arryn: He feels responsible for you.
Sansa Stark: Oh, I know he does. I'm so grateful.
Lysa Arryn: [sharply] Why? Why does he feel responsible for you?
Sansa Stark: Well, I'm half Tully. He loved your... family so much.
Lysa Arryn: Loved your mother.
Sansa Stark: No.
Lysa Arryn: That's what you wanted to say.
Sansa Stark: He loves you, Aunt Lysa. He's married to you.
Lysa Arryn: Your mother never loved him. Never. Cat always went straight for the sweetest thing. The most obvious thing. Your Uncle Brandon. Your handsome, arrogant, cruel Uncle Brandon. He almost killed Petyr in a duel. And your mother loved him anyway. And now Petyr is risking his life to save you, the daughter of a woman who didn't love him no more than those whores in his brothels. Has he told you about them?
Sansa Stark: No.
Lysa Arryn: He hasn't told you about the vile things they do with their bodies? [squeezes Sansa's hands] The vile things they let him do with their bodies?
Sansa Stark: No, never.
Lysa Arryn: Are you pregnant?
Sansa Stark: What? No, I told you. Lord Tyrion and I never-
Lysa Arryn: I wasn't asking about Tyrion. What have you let Petyr do with your body?
Sansa Stark: Aunt Lysa, no, I-
Lysa Arryn: Your young, pretty body.
Sansa Stark: Nothing. I'm a virgin.
Lysa Arryn: Don't lie to me.
Sansa Stark: You're hurting me.
Lysa Arryn: I'll know if you lie.
Sansa Stark: I'm a virgin, I swear it. He loves you, Aunt Lysa. All he says is that I'm stupid. I'm a stupid little girl with stupid dreams who never learns and I'm a terrible liar, so I should always tell the truth. And I swear to you that he has never touched me. Not once, not ever.
Lysa Arryn: Shh. Shh. Shh. It's all right. It will all be all right. You'll be a widow soon. They'll execute that dwarf for murdering the king and you'll be free to marry Robin. You'll be the Lady of the Vale.

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Sandor Clegane: The hell you doing?
Arya Stark: Practicing.
Sandor Clegane: What, ways to die?
Arya Stark: No one's going to kill me.
Sandor Clegane: They will if you nance around like that. That's no way to fight.
Arya Stark: It's not fighting. It's water dancing.
Sandor Clegane: Dancing? Maybe you ought to put on a dress. Who taught you that shite?
Arya Stark: The greatest swordsman who ever lived. Syrio Forel, the First Sword to the Sealord of Braavos.
Sandor Clegane: [scoffs] Braavos. Greasy-haired little bastard, I bet. They all are.
Arya Stark: What do you know about anything?
Sandor Clegane: I bet his hair is greasier than Joffrey's cunt.
Arya Stark: It was not.
Sandor Clegane: Was? He dead?
Arya Stark: Yes.
Sandor Clegane: How?
Arya Stark: He was killed.
Sandor Clegane: Who by?
Arya Stark: Meryn Trant. That's why Ser Meryn--
Sandor Clegane: Meryn Trant? The greatest swordsman who ever lived killed by Meryn fucking Trant?
Arya Stark: He was outnumbered.
Sandor Clegane: Any boy whore with a sword could beat three Meryn Trants.
Arya Stark: Syrio didn't have a sword. Or armor. Just a stick.
Sandor Clegane: The greatest swordsman who ever lived didn't have a sword? [laughs] All right. You have a sword. Let's see what he taught you. Go on, do it for your Braavosi friend. Dead like all the rest of your friends.
[Arya stabs him with Needle, but the sword won't penetrate his armor and Sandor smacks her in the face]
Sandor Clegane: Your friend's dead and Meryn Trant's not. 'Cause Trant had armor, and a big fucking sword.

  --  First of His Name [4.05]
%
Tycho Nestoris: I'm afraid we must respectfully decline your request. But we thank you for paying us the honor of your visit.
Davos Seaworth: My lord.
Tycho Nestoris: I'm not a lord, Ser Davos Seaworth. You would not be either here. In Braavos, thieves are not rewarded with titles.
Davos Seaworth: Well, strictly speaking, I didn't do the thieving. That would be the pirates. I just moved what they stole from one place to another. [shows his mutilated hand] This is the payment that was demanded by King Stannis for my crimes. I consider it an honest accounting. He's an honest man and he's your best chance to get back the money you've sunk into Westeros. Which is a lot, I imagine. Wars are expensive.
Tycho Nestoris: The war is over.
Davos Seaworth: As long as Stannis lives, the war is not over. Who's the real power in King's Landing?
Tycho Nestoris: Ser Davos...
Davos Seaworth: Humor me.
Tycho Nestoris: Tywin Lannister.
Davos Seaworth: How old is Tywin Lannister?
Tycho Nestoris: 67.
Davos Seaworth: 67. And when he dies, who's in command? A half-grown boy, the product of incest? Cersei Lannister, a queen whose people despise her? Jaime Lannister, a man best known for killing the king he was sworn to protect? When Tywin's gone, who do you back?
Tycho Nestoris: That is a problem for another time.
Davos Seaworth: Begging your pardon, I think it's a problem for now. There's only one reliable leader left in Westeros. [points to Stannis] Stannis. He's got the birthright. He's in his prime. He's a tried and tested battle commander. [shows his hand again] And he doesn't just talk about paying people back, he does it.

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Varys: Prince Oberyn.
Oberyn Martell: Lord Varys.
Varys: Only "Varys". I'm not actually a nobleman; no-one is under obligation to call me "Lord".
Oberyn Martell: And yet everyone does. [pause]
Varys: You seemed quite knowledgeable about the Unsullied, Prince Oberyn. Did you spend much time in Essos?
Oberyn Martell: five years.
Varys: May I ask why?
Oberyn: It is a big and beautiful world. Most people live and die in the same corner where we were born in, without ever getting to see more of it. I don't want to be most of us.
Varys: [smiles] Most of us aren't princes.
'Oberyn Martell: [stares at Varys for a moment, then smiles] You are from Essos. Where? Lhys?... [notices Varys' disconcerted expression] I have an ear for accents.
Varys: [sharply] I've lost my accent entirely.
Oberyn Martell: [smiles] I have an ear for that as well. How did you get here?
Varys:It's a long story.
Oberyn Martell: [shrugs] One you don't like telling people?
Varys: People I trust...
Oberyn Martell: My paramour, Ellaria, she would find you very interesting. You should come to the brothel and meet her. We've brought our own wine- not the swill they serve here- and we have some lovely boys. You did like boys, before? [Varys shakes his head] Really? Girls? Hmmm... hope you won't be offended when I say I never would have guessed.
Varys: Not at all... but I was never interested in girls either.
Oberyn Martell: What, then?
Varys: Nothing.
Oberyn Martell: Everybody is interested in something.
Varys: Not me. When I see what desire does to people- what it's done to this country- I am very glad to have no part in it. Besides, the absence of desire leaves one free to pursue... other things.
Oberyn Martell: Such as?... [he follows Vary's gaze to the Iron Throne; Varys walks away, and Oberyn smiles]

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Salladhor Saan: The lookout sees a pirate ship sailing their way. The captain shouts to his first mate, "Bring me my red shirt." The first mate brings the red shirt and the captain puts it on, and when the pirates try to board, the brave captain leads his men to victory. A few days later, the lookout screams, "Two pirate ships!" The crew is shivering like scared mice. But the courageous captain hollers, "Bring me my red shirt!" After the battle, the first mate asks, "Captain, why do you call for your red shirt before battle?" The captain replies, "So that if I am stabbed, you will not see me bleed." The next morning the lookout screams, "Ten pirate ships! We are surrounded!" The crew goes silent. They all look to their brave captain, waiting for his usual command. Calm as ever, the captain bellows-
Whores: [together] "Bring me my brown pants!!" [laughing]
Davos: You think they ever met a pirate who didn't tell them that joke?

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Oberyn Martell: These meetings aren't always going to be this early, are they? I was up late last night. [sarcastic] So, does this mean I am a master of something now? Coins, ships?
Mace Tyrell: Lord Tywin and I already determined that I shall be the Master of Ships long before you-
[Tywin enters and everybody but Oberyn stands up]
Mace Tyrell: Lord Tywin, it's a great honor to have been granted a seat on this council. I-
Tywin Lannister: The trial begins this afternoon. We only have the morning for affairs of state. Shall we begin?
Varys: Sandor Clegane has been spotted in the Riverlands, my lord.
Cersei Lannister: A coward and a traitor.
Varys: My birds tell me the Hound slaughtered five of our soldiers. I believe the phrase "fuck the king" was uttered.
Pycelle: Disgraceful.
Tywin Lannister: What would it take to make the common soldier stupid enough to try his luck with the Hound?
Varys: 10 Silver stags seems a generous bounty.
Tywin Lannister: Make it 100. What else?
Varys: More whispers from the east, my lord.
Tywin Lannister: The Targaryen girl?
Varys: Daenerys has taken up residence in Meereen. She has conquered the city and rules as its queen.
Cersei Lannister: Conquered with what?
Varys: She commands an army of Unsullied, my queen. Some 8,000 strong. She has a company of sellswords, the Second Sons. She has two knights advising her. Jorah Mormont and Barristan Selmy. And, she has three dragons.
Cersei Lannister: Baby dragons.
Varys: Larger every year, Your Grace.
Pycelle: Mormont is spying on her for us.
Varys: No longer. He appears to be fully devoted to her. As for Ser Barristan, it would seem he took his dismissal from the Kingsguard a bit harder than anticipated. (gives Cersei a reproachful look)
Cersei Lannister: (scornfully) He's an old man. He wasn't fit to protect my son.
Tywin Lannister: (impatient) Joffrey didn't die on his watch. Dismissing him was as insulting as it was stupid.
Cersei Lannister: (defensively) Don't tell me you're worried about a child, halfway across the world.
Varys: (sarcastically) A child with two seasoned warriors counseling her... and a powerful army at her back, Your Grace.
Oberyn Martell: Lord Varys is right. I have been to Essos and seen the Unsullied firsthand. They are very impressive on the battlefield. Less so in the bedroom.
Tywin Lannister: Dragons haven't won a war in 300 years. Armies win them all the time. She must be dealt with. (To Varys) Can your little birds find their way into Mereen?
Varys: Most certainly, my Lord Hand.

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Jaime Lannister: You'd condemn your own son to death?
Tywin Lannister: I've condemned no-one. The trial is not over.
Jaime Lannister: This isn't a trial, it's a farce! Cersei has manipulated everything and you know it!
Tywin Lannister: I know nothing of the sort.
Jaime Lannister: [angry] You've always hated Tyrion!
Tywin Lannister: He killed his king-
Jaime Lannister: As did I! Do you know the last order the Mad King gave me? To bring him your head! I saved your life so you could murder my brother?!
Tywin Lannister: It won't be murder, it will be justice.
Jaime Lannister: Justice?!
Tywin Lannister: I'm performing my sworn duty as Hand of the King. If Tyrion is found guilty, he will be punished accordingly.
Jaime Lannister: He'll be executed.
Tywin Lannister: No, he'll be punished accordingly!
Jaime Lannister: Once, you said family is what lives on. All that lives on. You told me about a dynasty that would last 1000 years. What happens to your dynasty when Tyrion dies? [gestures to his armour] I'm a Kingsguard, forbidden by oath to carry on the family line.
Tywin Lannister: [dismissive] I'm well aware of your oath.
Jaime Lannister: What happens to your name? Who carries the lion banner into future battles? Your nephews? Lancel Lannister?! Others whose names I don't even remember?!
Tywin Lannister: What happens to my dynasty if I spare the life of my grandson's killer?!
Jaime Lannister: It survives...through me. [Tywin looks shocked] I'll leave the Kingsguard, I'll take my place as your son and heir if you let Tyrion live.
Tywin Lannister: Done. [Jaime is stunned] When the testimony is concluded and the guilty verdict rendered, Tyrion will be given the chance to speak. He'll plead for mercy, I'll allow him to join the Night's Watch. In three days times, he'll depart for Castle Black and live out his days at the Wall. You'll remove your white cloak immediately. You will leave King's Landing to assume your rightful place at Casterly Rock. You will marry a suitable woman, and father children named "Lannister". And you'll never turn your back on your family again.
Jaime Lannister: You have my word.
Tywin Lannister: And you have mine.

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
[Immediately after, Jaime approaches Tyrion during a recess in the trial]
Tyrion Lannister: Not going well, is it?!
Jaime Lannister: You're going to be found guilty-
Tyrion Lannister: [sarcastically] Oh, you think so?!
Jaime Lannister: And when you are, you need to enter a formal plea for mercy and ask to be sent to the Wall. Father's agreed to it. He'll spare your life and allow you join the Night's Watch.
Tyrion Lannister: Ned Stark was promised the same thing, and we both know how that turned out!
Jaime Lannister: Father's not Joffrey! He'll keep his word-
Tyrion Lannister: [Disbelieving] How do you know?
Jaime Lannister: Do you trust me? [Tyrion nods]

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Tyrion: [After Shae testifies against him] Father... I wish to confess. I wish to confess.
Tywin: You wish to confess?
Tyrion: [To the audience of the trial] I saved you. I saved this city [angrily] and all your worthless lives! I should've let Stannis kill you all!
[The crowd groans with disgust]
Tywin: Tyrion! [Tyrion looks at him] Do you wish to confess?
Tyrion: Yes... Father. I'm guilty. Guilty! Is that what you want to hear!?
Tywin: You admit you've poisoned the King?
Tyrion: No. Of that, I'm innocent. I'm guilty of a far more monstrous crime. I'm guilty of being a dwarf!
Tywin: [Scoffs] You are not on trial for being a dwarf.
Tyrion: [Angrily] Oh, yes I am! I've been on trial for that my entire life!
Tywin: [Impatiently] Have you nothing to say on your defense?
Tyrion: Nothing but this: I did not do it. [With great fury; to Cersei] I did not kill Joffrey, but I WISH that I HAD! Watching your vicious bastard die give me MORE relief than a thousand lying whores!! [To the crowd] I WISH I WAS THE MONSTER YOU THINK I AM!! I WISH I HAD ENOUGH POISON FOR THE WHOLE PACK OF YOU!! I WOULD GLADLY GIVE MY LIFE TO WATCH YOU ALL SWALLOW IT!!!
[The entire crowd roars with outrage]
Tywin: [Angrily stands] Ser Meryn! Ser Meryn, escort the prisoner back to his cell!
Tyrion: [Stares irately at his father] I WILL NOT GIVE MY LIFE FOR JOFFREY'S MURDER, AND I KNOW I'LL GET NO JUSTICE HERE!! SO I WILL LET THE GODS DECIDE MY FATE!... I demand a trial by combat.
[The crowd, once again, roars with outrage, as Margaery, Shae, Jaime and Cersei stare at Tyrion with disbelief; Oberyn leans forward, looking intrigued. Tyrion smiles bitterly at his father, who glares furiously back at him]

  --  The Laws of Gods and Men [4.06]
%
Jaime Lannister: I made a deal for you to keep your ungrateful head on your ungrateful neck a little while longer.
Tyrion Lannister: I'm sorry, what am I grateful for? The opportunity to live and die at the Wall as punishment for a crime I did not commit?
Jaime Lannister: You threw your life away. You threw it away. It's not a joke. You understand that, don't you?
Tyrion Lannister: Of course it's a joke, just not a very funny one. I couldn't- I couldn't listen to her standing there telling her lies. I couldn't do it.
Jaime Lannister: You fell in love with a whore.
Tyrion Lannister: Yes, I fell in love with a whore. And I was stupid enough to think that she had fallen in love with me. That deal you made, it was everything father wanted. You do see that? He gets you back as his heir. The future Lord of the Rock. And he ships me off to Castle Black, out of sight at last. All so perfect. It felt good to take that from him. He knows I'm innocent and he's willing to sacrifice me anyway.
Jaime Lannister: He's willing to sacrifice any of us.
Tyrion Lannister: Not you. You're the golden son. You could kill a king, lose a hand, fuck your own sister, you'll always be the golden son.
Jaime Lannister: Careful. I'm the last friend you've got.
Tyrion Lannister: At least I got to tell them what they really are.
Jaime Lannister: Yes, brilliant speech. They'll be talking about it for days to come. I thought you were a realist. Didn't realize you'd die for pride.
Tyrion Lannister: Don't give up on me just yet. I survived one trial by combat, even though you weren't there to save me.
Jaime Lannister: I can't save you this time either. My training has proved that I can't beat a stable boy with my left hand.
Tyrion Lannister: Where's your sense of adventure? Even if you lose, imagine the look on father's face when you fall. Our family name snuffed out with a single swing of the sword.
Jaime Lannister: (chuckles) ...It is tempting.
Tyrion Lannister: Well... Bronn fought for me once, he'll do it again. If he wins, I expect I'll be in his debt for the rest of my life.
Jaime Lannister: If he wins.
Tyrion Lannister: Will you find him for me? [Jaime nods] Who does Cersei plan on naming as a champion? I hope it's Ser Meryn Trant. I'd enjoy watching Bronn disembowel that pompous child beater.
Jaime Lannister: No. Not Ser Meryn.

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
[Bronn enters Tyrion's cell, dressed in noble finery]
Bronn: My lord. [makes a mocking bow]
Tyrion Lannister: [suspicious] You have new clothes.
Bronn: You like them, eh? Gloves are doeskin, softer than a virgin's thighs.
Tyrion Lannister: I sent for you days ago.
Bronn: I've been a bit busy.
Tyrion Lannister: Doing what?!
Bronn: My lonesome bachelor days are over. I'm to wed Lollys Stokeworth.
Tyrion Lannister: [astounded] Lollys Stokeworth?! She doesn't strike me as your sort of girl.
Bronn: I wouldn't say I had a single sort of girl.
Tyrion Lannister: She's dim-witted!
Bronn: If I wanted wits, I'd marry you.
Tyrion Lannister: When my sister arranged this love match, did she mention that Lollys has an older sister?
Bronn: Falyse. Aye, I did know about the older sister.
Tyrion Lannister: And you do understand the rules of inheritance?
Bronn: Falyse is forty and barren.
Tyrion Lannister: She still gets Castle Stokeworth when her father dies.
Bronn: [nods] She does...unless she happens to perish before her father, then Lollys gets the castle. [sees Tyrion's incredulous expression] What?! Ladies fall from their horse and snap their pretty necks all the time.
Tyrion Lannister: You and my sister deserve each other. Why did you bother to come here?
Bronn: You once said if anyone ever asked me to sell you out, you'd double their price.
Tyrion Lannister: Is it two wives you want or two castles?!
Bronn: One of each would do... but if you want me to kill the Mountain for you, it'd better be a damn big castle.
Tyrion Lannister: I'm a bit short on castles at the moment, but I can offer you gold and gratitude.
Bronn: I have gold. What can I buy with gratitude?
Tyrion Lannister: You might be surprised. A Lannister always pays his debts.
Bronn: Your sister's a Lannister too.
Tyrion Lannister: My wife is heir to Winterfell. If I emerge from this with my head still on my shoulders, I may one day rule the North in her name. I could carve you out a big piece of it.
Bronn: If and may and could. It's bloody cold up north. Lollys is soft and warm and close. If I gave you the choice between fucking Lollys and fighting the Mountain, you'd have your britches down and your cock up before I could blink!
Tyrion Lannister: Does he frighten you so much?!
Bronn: I'd be a bloody fool if he didn't frighten me. He's freakish big and freakish strong, and quicker than you'd expect for a man of that size. Maybe I could take him, dance around until he's so tired from hacking at me he dropped his sword, get him off his feet somehow...but one misstep and I'm dead. Why should I risk it?
Tyrion Lannister: Because you're my friend.
Bronn: Aye, I'm your friend...and when have you ever risked your life for me? [Tyrion looks stunned and then despondent] I like you, pampered little shit that you are. I just...like myself more.
Tyrion Lannister: I understand.
Bronn: I'm sorry it has to be this way.
Tyrion Lannister: Why are you sorry? Because you're an evil bastard with no conscience and no heart? That's what I liked about you in the first place. [they shake hands for the last time]
Bronn: We had some good days together.
Tyrion Lannister: Yes, we did. [Bronn goes to leave, but stops at the door]
Bronn: What will you do?
Tyrion Lannister: I suppose I'll have to kill the Mountain myself. Won't that make for a great song?
Bronn: [sincerely] I hope to hear them sing it one day.

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
Jorah Mormont: Daario Naharis killed his captains and dumped their heads at your feet when he grew tired of their commands. How could you ever have faith in a man like that?
Daenerys Targaryen: I could never have faith in a man like Daario. That's why I've sent him and the Second Sons to retake Yunkai.
Jorah Mormont: You have?
Daenerys Targaryen: I have.
Jorah Mormont: Without you there to rule, Khaleesi, I fear the masters will simply bide their time, wait for the invaders to leave and reassert control.
Daenerys Targaryen: That is why I've ordered Daario to execute every master in Yunkai. The masters tear babies from their mothers' arms. They mutilate little boys by the thousands. They train little girls in the art of pleasuring old men.
Jorah Mormont: They treat men like beasts, as you said yourself. Herding the masters into pens and slaughtering them by the thousands is also treating men like beasts. The slaves you freed, brutality is all they've ever known. If you want them to know something else, you'll have to show it to them.
Daenerys Targaryen: And repay the slavers with what? Kindness? A fine? A stern warning?
Jorah Mormont: It's tempting to see your enemies as evil, all of them, but there's good and evil on both sides in every war ever fought.
Daenerys Targaryen: Let the priests argue over good and evil. Slavery is real. I can end it. I will end it. And I will end those behind it.
Jorah Mormont: I sold men into slavery, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: And now you are helping me show them to freedom.
Jorah Mormont: I wouldn't be here to help you if Ned Stark had done to me what you want to do to the masters of Yunkai.
Daenerys Targaryen: The man who came to me the other day about burying his father.
Jorah Mormont: Hizdahr zo Loraq?
Daenerys Targaryen: He will accompany the Second Sons and serve as my ambassador to Yunkai. He will tell the masters what has happened in Meereen. He will explain the choice they have before them. They can live in my new world or they can die in their old one. Well, go and catch Daario before he leaves. Tell him I changed my mind.
Jorah Mormont: Yes, Khaleesi.
Daenerys Targaryen: No. Tell him you changed my mind.

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
Tyrion Lannister: (Oberyn enters the cell, lighting it with a torch) I imagined you'd be back at the brothel at this hour.
Oberyn Martell: I did spend some time with an absolutely stunning blonde the other day. (puts the torch in a bracket)
Tyrion Lannister: Mm, do tell. I've got every kind of filth down here except the kind I like.
Oberyn Martell: Your sister, actually.
Tyrion Lannister: (rolls his eyes) ...Oh.
Oberyn Martell: (pulls up a bench, sits across from Tyrion) Cersei approached me. We spoke a great deal about her daughter. How worried your sister is about her. She was trying very hard to pretend she had not come to sway me against you- I think she may have even believed it herself.
Tyrion Lannister: (smiles grimly) Making honest feelings do dishonest work is one of her many gifts.
Oberyn Martell: It was difficult for her to hide her true intentions. (raises his eyebrows) It is rare... to meet a Lannister who shares my enthusiasm for dead Lannisters. She desperately wants to see you killed.
Tyrion Lannister: (shrugs) She didn't need to bother you. It looks as though I've taken care of that myself. The joy she will feel when my head leaves my neck... she's wanted this for a long time.
Oberyn Martell: Yes, I know. (Tyrion frowns in confusion) We met, you and I. Many years ago.
Tyrion Lannister: ...I think I would have remembered that.
Oberyn Martell: Unlikely- you had just been born. Our father brought me and my sister Elia with him, on a visit to Casterly Rock; my first time away from Dorne. I didn't like anything about the Rock. Not the food, not the weather, not your accents. Nothing. But the biggest disappointment... you.
Tyrion Lannister: (smiles) You and my family have more in common than you might admit.
Oberyn Martell:The whole way from Dorne, all anyone talked about was the monster that had been born to Tywin Lannister. A head twice the size of his body, a tail between his legs, claws, one red eye, the privates of both a girl and a boy-
Tyrion Lannister: That would have made things so much easier.
Oberyn Martell: When we met your sister, she promised she would show you to us. Every day, we would ask; every day, she would say, "Soon." Then, she and your brother took us to your nursery and... she unveiled the freak. (pause) Your head was a bit large, your arms and legs were a bit small, but no claw. No red eye. No tail between your legs, just a tiny pink cock. We didn't try to hide our disappointment. "That's not a monster," I told Cersei. "That's just a baby." And she said, "He killed my mother." And she pinched your little cock so hard, I thought she might pull it off. Until your brother made her stop. "It doesn't matter," she told us. "Everyone says he will die soon. I hope they are right. He should not have lived this long."
Tyrion Lannister: (holding back tears of resentment and loneliness) Well... sooner or later, Cersei always gets what she wants.
Oberyn Martell: And what about what I want? Justice... for my sister, and for her children.
Tyrion Lannister: (chuckles bitterly) If you want justice, you've come to the wrong place.
Oberyn Martell: I disagree. I've come to the perfect place. I want to bring those who have wronged me to justice. And, all those who have wronged me are right here. (stands up) I will begin with Ser Gregor Clegane, who killed my sister's children and then raped her with their blood still on his hands before killing her, too. (turns, pulls a torch from the wall bracket, then turns back to face Tyrion) I will be your champion. (Tyrion begins shaking with relief, that someone will finally stand for him)

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
[Sansa has build a snow castle of Winterfell]
Robin Arryn: Does Winterfell have a Moon Door?
Sansa Stark: No, I'm afraid not. It's not high up in the mountains. It's down on the ground.
Robin Arryn: That sounds dangerous. How do you make people fly?
Sansa Stark: We don't.
Robin Arryn: What do you do with all the bad people and the scary people and the people you don't like?
Sansa Stark: I never did anything with them at all. Girls didn't take part in that where I came from.
Robin Arryn: Well, I'm Lord of the Vale. When I grow up, I'll be able to fly anybody who bothers me. Or you. When we get married, you can tell me if you don't like somebody and then we can bring them back here and, whoosh! Right through the Moon Door.
Sansa Stark: I like the sound of that.
Robin Arryn: Let's put a Moon Door in your Winterfell.
Sansa Stark: All right.
Robin Arryn: It can go in here in this big tower.
Sansa Stark: Careful. [Robin knocks down the tower] You've ruined it. Now I'm going to have to rebuild the whole thing.
Robin Arryn: I didn't ruin it.
Sansa Stark: You did.
Robin Arryn: It was already ruined because it didn't have a Moon Door. I was fixing it.
Sansa Stark: Knocking things down isn't fixing them. It's ruining them.
Robin Arryn: I didn't ruin it!
Sansa Stark: You're being stupid.
Robin Arryn: [yelling] I didn't ruin it!
[Robin starts kicking the snow castle. Sansa slaps him in the face, causing Robin to run crying inside]
Sansa Stark:Robin, I'm sorry, I--
Petyr Baelish: Children.
Sansa Stark: I hit him.
Petyr Baelish: Yes, I saw.
Sansa Stark: I shouldn't have done that.
Petyr Baelish: No, his mother should have a long time ago. Consider it a step in the right direction.

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
Sansa Stark: Why did you really kill Joffrey? Tell me why.
Petyr Baelish: I loved your mother more than you could ever know. Given the opportunity, what do we do to those who've hurt the ones we love? In a better world, one where love could overcome strength and duty, you might have been my child. But we don't live in that world.

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
Sansa Stark: You wanted to see me, Aunt Lysa?
Lysa Arryn:Come here, Sansa. Do you know how far the fall is?
Sansa Stark: No.
Lysa Arryn: Neither do I, precisely. Hundreds of feet. It's fascinating what happens to bodies when they hit the rocks from such a height. The impact breaks them right apart. Like eggs dropped on the floor. Sometimes pieces remain intact. You'll find the head sitting on its own. Every hair in place. Blue eyes staring at nothing. I know what you did.
Sansa Stark: I'm so sorry, Aunt Lysa. I never should have hit Robin, I know it. I promise it won't happen-
Lysa Arryn: Don't be coy with me, you little whore. You kissed him. You kissed Petyr.
Sansa Stark: I didn't. You don't understand.
Lysa Arryn: I saw you. You can't lie to me because I saw it with my own eyes.
Sansa Stark: He kissed me. I pulled away.
Lysa Arryn: Liar! [grabs Sansa by her hair and hold her over de Moon Door] Whore! He is mine! My father, my husband, my sister, they all stood between us and now they're all dead. That's what happens to people who stand between Petyr and me. Look down! Look down! Look down! Look down!
Petyr Baelish: Lysa! Let her go.
Lysa Arryn:You want her? This empty-headed child?
Petyr Baelish: Let her go.
Lysa Arryn: She's just like her mother. She'll never love you. I lied for you. I killed for you. Why did you bring her here? Why?
Petyr Baelish: I'll send her away. I swear on my life. I swear to all the gods. Let her go, Lysa.
[Lysa releases Sansa. Baelish walks over to her and helps a crying Lysa to her feet]
Petyr Baelish: Oh, my sweet wife. My sweet, silly wife. I have only loved one woman... only one, my entire life. [Lysa smiles] Your sister.
[Baelish shoves Lysa out of the Moon Door]

  --  Mockingbird [4.07]
%
Anya Waynwood: [to Sansa] You have nothing to fear from us or him. Lord Baelish here is your uncle? Your name is Alayne? [Sansa remains silent] Perhaps you would feel more comfortable if Lord Baelish left the room.
Petyr Baelish: My lady-
Anya Waynwood: I wasn't asking you.
Sansa Stark: [softly] He can stay.
Yohn Royce: Speak up, girl, you're not a damn kitchen mouse. Tell us what you saw.
Sansa Stark: I'm sorry, Lord Baelish. I have to tell the truth. I'll tell you everything.
Anya Waynwood: Please, Alayne, leave nothing out.
Sansa Stark: My name is not Alayne. It's Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of Lord Eddard Stark. Lord Royce, we met when you came to Winterfell. You were escorting your son Ser Waymar to the Wall.
Yohn Royce: [incredulously] Sansa Stark? [to Baelish] You tell lies right to my face, you little worm?
Sansa Stark: Lord Baelish has told many lies. All to protect me. Since my father was executed, I have been a hostage in King's Landing. A plaything for Joffrey to torture or Queen Cersei to torment. They beat me, they humiliated me, they married me to the Imp. I had no friends in King's Landing... except one. [looks to Baelish] He saved me. Smuggled me away when he had the chance. He knew I'd be safe here in the Eyrie with my own blood, my Aunt Lysa. The Lannisters have friends everywhere. Even the Vale. He made me swear not to tell anyone my true name.
Vance Corbray: Your secret is safe with us, my lady.
Yohn Royce: Your father grew up right here in these halls. We hunted together many times. He was a fine man.
Anya Waynwood: Tell us what happened to your aunt, Sansa.
Sansa Stark: You knew her well, my lords, my lady. You knew she was a troubled woman. She always loved Lord Baelish. She told me herself. From the moment he arrived at the gates of Riverrun, a boy of eight carrying everything he owned in a little sack. She confessed to me she never loved Lord Arryn. She did as her father commanded, as so many of us have. When the gods finally allowed her to be with Lord Baelish, she was so happy. For a time. My aunt was a jealous lady. She was terrified that Lord Baelish didn't love her anymore. That he would abandon her for a younger woman. And then... one day she saw him kiss me.
Yohn Royce: [shocked] Lady Sansa.
Sansa Stark: It was a peck on the cheek, Lord Royce, nothing more. Lord Baelish is my uncle now, in truth, by marriage. He's always been so kind to me. I was so happy to be here, to be free. All because of him. But my aunt turned on me. She cursed me. Called me a whore. Promised to throw me through the Moon Door. When Lord Baelish tried to calm her, she struck him. She said she didn't want to live anymore. She stood on the edge of that Moon Door. He tried to reason with her. Promised her she was the only one he had ever loved, but she stepped through those doors and she was- [starts crying]
Anya Waynwood: Shh. [hugs Sansa] Shh, it's not your fault, sweet girl. It's not your fault.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
[Barristan Selmy approaches Jorah Mormont after receiving a letter sent from The Hand of the King]
Jorah Mormont: Ser Barristan.
Barristan Selmy: Ser Jorah.
Jorah Mormont: Have I forgotten a council meeting?
Barristan Selmy: No. [Hands him the letter]
Jorah Mormont: What's this?
Barristan Selmy: A royal pardon signed by Robert Baratheon. [As Jorah reads it] You spied on her.
Jorah Mormont: Who gave you this?
Barristan Selmy: Does it matter? [Takes the pardon]
Jorah Mormont: Have you told her?
Barristan Selmy: I wanted to tell you first, man to man, rather than go behind your back.
Jorah Mormont: Let me speak with her in private.
Barristan Selmy: You'll never be alone with her again. [Leaves]

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
[Moments after, Jorah enters Daenerys's throne room]
Daenerys Targaryen: Why did the Usurper pardon you?
Jorah Mormont: If we could speak alone...
Daenerys Targaryen: No. Speak to me here. Explain it to me.
Jorah Mormont: Who do you think sent this to Meereen? Who profits? This is the work of Tywin Lannister. He wants to divide us. If we're fighting each other, we're not fighting him.
Daenerys Targaryen: The pardon was signed the year we met. Why were you pardoned? Unless you're saying this document was forged?
[beat]
Jorah Mormont: It is not forged.
Daenerys Targaryen: Why then?
Jorah Mormont: I sent letters to Varys. The spymaster of King's Landing.
Daenerys Targaryen: [seething] What was the content of these letters?
Jorah Mormont: Information.
Daenerys Targaryen: What information?
Jorah Mormont: When you and Viserys arrived in Pentos. His plan to marry you to Khal Drogo. When you were married. When your brother died...
Daenerys Targaryen: You told them I was carrying Drogo's child?
Jorah Mormont: I-
Daenerys Targaryen: Yes or no?
Jorah Mormont: Khaleesi-
Daenerys Targaryen: Don't call me that. Did you tell them I was carrying Drogo's child?
Jorah Mormont: [long beat] Yes. [Daenerys stands up]
Daenerys Targaryen: That wine merchant tried to poison me because of your information.
Jorah Mormont: I stopped you from drinking his wine.
Daenerys Targaryen: Because you knew it was poisoned.
Jorah Mormont: I suspected...
Daenerys Targaryen: [furious] You betrayed me... From the first!
Jorah Mormont: [kneeling] Forgive me. I never meant... Please, Khaleesi. Forgive me-
Daenerys Targaryen: You sold my secrets to the man who killed my father and stole my brother's throne-
Jorah Mormont: I have protected you, fought for you, killed for you!
Daenerys Targaryen: [talking over him] -you want me to forgive you!?
Jorah Mormont: [beat] I have loved you.
Daenerys Targaryen: Love...? Love!? How can you say that to me? Any other man and I would have you executed, but you-I don't want you in my city dead or alive. Go back to your masters in King's Landing, collect your pardon if you can. [He rises and reaches out to her]
Jorah Mormont: Daenerys, please-
Daenerys Targaryen: Don't... ever presume to touch me again or speak my name. You have until dusk to collect your things and leave this city. If you are found in Meereen past break of day, I'll have your head thrown into Slaver's Bay. [beat] Go... now.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Tyrion Lannister: Do you remember cousin Orson? Orson Lannister?
Jaime Lannister: Of course. Wet nurse dropped him on his head, left him simple.
Tyrion Lannister: Simple. Used to sit all day in the garden, crushing beetles with a rock.
Tyrion and Jaime: [imitating Orson] Kun, kun, kun!
Tyrion Lannister: Nothing made him happier.
Jaime Lannister: Nothing made you happier. You'd think being tormented from birth would give you some affinity for the afflicted.
Tyrion Lannister: On the contrary. Laughing at another person's misery was the only thing that made me feel like everyone else.
Jaime Lannister: Joke wore thin, though.
Tyrion Lannister: For you. You drifted away.
Jaime Lannister: I had other interests.
Tyrion Lannister: Yes. Other interests. But I stayed with Orson.
Jaime Lannister: Why?
Tyrion Lannister: I was curious. Why was he smashing all those beetles? What did he get out of it? First thing I did was ask him. "Orson, why are you smashing all those beetles?" He gave me an answer. "Smash the beetles! Smash them! Kun kun kun!" I wasn't deterred. I was the smartest person I knew, certainly I had the wherewithal to unravel the mysteries that lay at the heart of a moron. So I went to Maester Valeric's library.
Jaime Lannister: Valeric. Tried to touch me once.
Tyrion Lannister: Turns out far too much has been written about great men and not nearly enough about morons. Doesn't seem right. In any case, I found nothing that illuminated the nature of Orson's affliction or the reason behind his relentless beetles slaughter. So I went back to the source. I may not have been able to speak with Orson, but I could observe him, watch him, the way men watch animals to come to a deeper understanding of their behavior. [Tyrion picks up a bug off the floor] And as I watched, I became more and more sure of it: there was something happening there. His face was like the page of a book written in a language I didn't understand, but he wasn't mindless, he had his reasons. And I became possessed with knowing what they were. I began spending inordinate amounts of time watching him. I would eat my lunch in the garden, chewing my mutton to the music of "kun kun kun". And when I wasn't watching him, I was thinking about him. Father droned on about the family legacy and I thought about Orson's beetles. I read the histories of Targaryen conquests. Did I hear dragon wings? No, I heard "kun kun kun". And I still couldn't figure out why he was doing it. And I had to know because it was horrible, that all these beetles would be dying for no reason.
Jaime Lannister: Every day around the world, men, women, and children are murdered by the score. Who gives a dusty fuck about a bunch of beetles?
Tyrion Lannister: I know, I know, but still it filled me with dread. Piles and piles of them, years and years of them. How many countless living, crawling things smashed, dried out, and returned to the dirt? In my dreams, I found myself standing on a beach made of beetle husks stretching as far as the eye can see. I woke up, crying, weeping for their shattered little bodies. I tried to stop Orson once.
Jaime Lannister: He was twice your size.
Tyrion Lannister: He just pushed me aside with a "kun", kept on smashing. Every day. Until that mule kicked him in the chest and killed him. [Tyrion releases the bug and it crawls away] So what do you think? Why did he do it? What's it all about?
Jaime Lannister: I don't know. [the bells toll, signalling the time is approaching; Jaime stands and walks to the door of the cell] Good luck today.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Petyr Baelish: The first time I saw you, you were just a child. A girl from the North, come to the capital for the first time. Not a child any longer. Why did you help me?
Sansa Stark: They would have thrown you through the Moon Door if they'd found you guilty.
Petyr Baelish: That's not an answer.
Sansa Stark: [nonchalant] If they'd've executed you, what would they have done with me?
Petyr Baelish: I don't know.
Sansa Stark: Neither do I.
Petyr Baelish: Better to gamble on the man you know than the strangers you don't.... you think you know me?
Sansa Stark: I know what you want.
Petyr Baelish: Do you?

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Tyrion Lannister: Looks like very light armor.
Oberyn Martell: I like to move around.
Tyrion Lannister: You could at least wear a helmet. [Oberyn sips a cup of wine] You shouldn't drink before a fight.
Oberyn Martell: You learn this during your years in the fighting pits? [Ellaria smirks at Tyrion] I always drink before a fight.
Tyrion Lannister: It could get you killed. It could get me killed!
Oberyn Martell: Today is not the day I die.
Ellaria Sand: [seeing the Mountain enter the ring, dressed in very heavy armor] You're going to fight that?
Oberyn Martell: I'm going to kill that.
Ellaria Sand: He's the biggest man I've ever seen!
Oberyn Martell: Size does not matter when you are flat on your back.
Tyrion Lannister: [sotto voce] Thank the gods.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Ellaria Sand: [after kissing Oberyn one last time]... Don't leave me alone in this world.
Oberyn Martell: Never.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Oberyn Martell: [after performing some warm-up acrobatics with his spear, drawing cheers from the crowd] Have they told you who I am?
Gregor Clegane: Some dead man! [He swings his greatsword, Oberyn easily dodges]
Oberyn Martell: I am the brother of Elia Martell. And do you know why I've come all the way to this stinking shitpile of a city? [grins] For you. I am going to hear you confess before you die: You raped my sister. You murdered her. You killed her children. Say it now, and we can make this quick. [Clegane lunges at him again, roaring; Oberyn fends off his strike with his spearblade, then knocks off Clegane's helmet and moves around him in a circle] Say it. [He dodges the Mountain's swings repeatedly as he speaks, still grinning] You raped her! You murdered her! [He pins down Clegane's sword momentarily with his spearblade] You killed her children. [Oberyn continues to circle and dodge around Clegane's furious attacks; he finally gets close enough to stab him in the side. Clegane kicks at the Viper and knocks him off his feet, but Oberyn dodges his swing; he continues to circle the Mountain] You raped her! You murdered her! You killed her children! [ Oberyn makes a series of attacks; the Mountain cuts his spear in half. Oberyn narrowly dodges the Mountain's next swing and grabs another spear from his attendant; in their next clash, Clegane pummels him to the ground, but Oberyn manages to dodge his swing and stabs him in the side again. Clegane's charges are becoming slower and clumsier, Oberyn's voice is rising with rage] YOU RAPED HER! YOU MURDERED HER! [Circling aggressively, Oberyn slashes the Mountain's right hamstring with the spearblade, brings him to his knees] YOU KILLED HER CHILDREN! [he leaps and stabs Ser Gregor through the chestplate, knocking him onto his back. The crowd roars, Ellaria, Jaime and Tyrion look relieved; Cersei looks furious] You're dying? No, no, no, you can't die yet. You haven't confessed! [wrenches his spear free, stalks around his prone opponent] Say it. Say her name: Elia Martell. You raped her. You killed her children. Elia Martell! [points at Tywin, who looks uneasy] Who gave you the order? WHO GAVE YOU THE ORDER?! Say her name! You raped her! You murdered her! You killed her children! Say it! Say her name! [meets Ellaria's eyes; she nods approvingly] SAY IT!
Gregor Clegane: [trips Oberyn to the ground, knocks his teeth out with one blow, rolls over and pins him, and begins gouging out his eyes] Elia Martell. I killed her children, then I raped her...then I smashed her head in, like this! [crushes Oberyn's skull, then rolls over, severely wounded; Ellaria screams in horror as Tyrion and Jaime are left dumbstruck. Cersei smirks triumphantly, as Tywin stands up to give the verdict]
Tywin Lannister: The gods have made their will known. Tyrion Lannister, in the name of King Tommen of the House Baratheon, first of his name, you are hereby sentenced to death.

  --  The Mountain and the Viper [4.08]
%
Sam: What was she like?
Jon: She...she had red hair.
Sam: [sarcastically] Oh? How big were her feet?
Jon: What do you want me to say?
Sam: I want you to tell me what it was like to have someone, to be with someone, to love someone and have them love you back. We're all gonna die a lot sooner than I planned. You're the closest I'll ever get to knowing.
Jon: So you and Gilly never...?
Sam: No. She just had a baby. And she never offered.
Jon: But if she had, you would have? You would have broken your vows?
Sam: The interesting thing is our vows never specifically forbid intimate relations with women.
Jon: What?
Sam: "I shall take no wife", yes, that's in there, there's no denying that. "I shall father no children", it's very specific. But what our vows have to say about other activities is open to interpretation.
Jon: I don't think Ser Alliser cares much for interpretation.
Sam: Anyway, there's nothing for him to interpret. We didn't. So what's it like?
Jon: It's...there's this person, this whole other person, and you're wrapped in them, they're wrapped up in you, and...you...for a little...for a little while you're more than just you, you're...well, I don't know, I'm not a bleeding poet!
Sam: No, you're really not.
Jon: And what did I get for it? An arrow six inches from my heart.
Sam: They'll be arrows for all of us soon, I imagine.
Jon: There will.
Sam: They've already done the worst thing to me they can ever do.
Jon: Go get some sleep, Sam. I'll take this watch.

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
Maester Aemon: Love is the end of duty.

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
Jon: That's the last of the oil, Ser Alliser.
Alliser Thorne: A hundred thousand, you say?
Jon: Yes, sir.
Alliser Thorne: You can say it if you like. We should have sealed the tunnel while we had the chance, like you suggested.
Jon: It was a difficult decision either way, sir.
Alliser Thorne: Do you know what leadership means, Lord Snow? It means that the person in charge gets second guessed by every clever little twat with a mouth. But if he starts second guessing himself, that's the end. For him, for the clever little twats, for everyone. This is not the end. Not for us. Not if you lot do your duty for however long it takes to beat them back. And then you get to go on hating me, and I get to go on wishing your Wildling whore had finished the job.

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
Sam: There's a lot more Wildlings on the other side of the Wall than this side. What with all these weapons and things, it's the perfect place for us to be.
Pyp: I've never thrown a spear before. I've never held a sword with a proper edge. This is no place for me to be. You're not afraid?
Sam: Of course I'm afraid. There's a band of Wildlings coming to kill us.
Pyp: Well, if you're afraid of a band of Wildlings, how in Seven Hells did you manage to kill a White Walker?
Sam: I didn't know I was going to kill it, but I had to do something. I didn't have any choice, he was going to kill Gilly, he was going to take the baby. If someone had asked me my name right there, I wouldn't have known. I wasn't Samwell Tarly anymore. I wasn't a steward in the Night's Watch or son of Randyll Tarly or any of that. I was nothing at all. And when you're nothing at all, there's no reason to be afraid.
Pyp: But you're afraid now?
Sam: Yes, well, I'm not nothing anymore.

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
[Pyp's arrows miss numerous Wildlings]
Pyp: Sam?
Sam: Yeah?
Pyp: I think we're gonna die!
Sam: Well, if you keep missing, we will!

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
[Pyp shoots a wildling in the chest]
Pyp: I got one! Straight through the heart, he's dead.
Sam: Oh. [sarcastically] Is it over?
Pyp: No.
Sam: Well then. [hands Pyp a loaded crossbow]

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
[Wildlings are attacking Castle Black]
Alliser Thorne: Brothers! A hundred generations have defended this castle! She's never fallen before! She will not fall tonight! Those are Thenns at our walls. They eat the flesh of the men they kill! Do you want to fill the belly of a Thenn tonight?!
Assembled Night's Watchmen: NO!
Alliser Thorne: Tonight we fight! And when the sun rises, I promise you, Castle Black will stand! The Night's Watch will stand!
[Wildlings climb over the castle wall]
Alliser Thorne: With me now! NOW, WITH ME!

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
Sam: The wildlings are over the walls! Ser Alliser's fallen! The castle won't stand much longer!
Jon: Edd, you have the Wall. If they try the mammoths again, drop fire on them. If the climbers get too high, drop the scythe on them.
[Jon and Sam leave]
Edd: Might as well enjoy our last night, right boys? LIGHT THE FUCKERS UP!

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
[Ygritte has been mortally wounded by an arrow shot by Olly]
Ygritte: Jon Snow.
Jon: Hush. Don't talk.
Ygritte: You remember that cave? [Jon nods] We should have stayed in that cave.
Jon: We'll go back there.
Ygritte: You know nothing, Jon Snow.
[Ygritte dies]

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
[Jon and his men surround a tired Tormund Giantsbane who is the only wildling left]
Jon: [While Tormund's still fighting] Tormund... it's over. Let it end.
Tormund: This is how a man ends! [Keeps fighting the Watchmen until Jon shoots him in the leg with a crossbow]
Jon: [Approaches Tormund and kicks him; to his men] Put him in chains. We'll question him later.
Tormund: [While being dragged by the guards, he roars to Jon] I SHOULD'VE THROWN YOU... FROM THE TOP OF THE WALL, BOY!!!
Jon: Aye... you should've.

  --  The Watchers on the Wall [4.09]
%
Mance Rayder: You're wearin' a black cloak again.
Jon Snow: I've been sent to negotiate with you. [Mance indicates for him to enter the tent, and they sit]
Mance Rayder: It appears my trusting nature got the better of me. It's happened before. I was hoping your loyalty was real when you pledged yourself to us, Jon Snow. Truly, I was.
Jon Snow: The Halfhand ordered me to join your army and bring back whatever information I could to Castle Black. He made me kill him, so that you'd trust me. I was loyal... to him, and to my Night's Watch vows.
Mance Rayder: [smiles] All of your vows? [Jon looks away, thinking of Ygritte] She wasn't enough to turn you, eh? Were you enough to turn her?
Jon Snow: [smiles] She put three arrows in me when I escaped.
Mance Rayder: Did you see her again at Castle Black?
Jon Snow: Yes.
Mance Rayder: And?...
Jon Snow: She's dead.
Mance Rayder: [pause] Your doing?
Jon Snow: [shakes his head] No.
Mance Rayder: We'll drink to her. [nods to one of his men, who pours a drink for him and Jon; Mance notices Jon eyeing the cup warily and snorts in disbelief] Of all the ways I'd kill you, poison would be the last. [He and Jon raise their cups in a toast] Ygritte.
Jon Snow: Ygritte. [they drink, and Jon coughs] That's not wine.
Mance: [chuckles] No, that's a proper Northern drink, Jon Snow. You did well, fought hard. Killed some of our strongest men. One of our giants went into your tunnel, and never came out again- Mag the Mighty.
Jon Snow: [nods] He's dead. He killed my friend Grenn.
Mance Rayder: He was their King- last of a bloodline that stretches back before the First Man.
Jon Snow: Grenn came from a farm.
Mance Rayder: [raises his cup again] Mag and Grenn.
Jon Snow: Grenn and Mag. [they drink again]
Mance Rayder: Fellback, can I trouble you for something to eat? I don't imagine our guest has eaten anything for quite some time. [Jon eyes Fellback's knife as he brings food to the table] So- you're here to strike a bargain.
Jon Snow: Turn your army around, and go home
Mance Rayder: {irritated at Jon's bluff] You know I know you're low on arrows. You're low on oil, you're low on men. [gives Jon a direct look] How many are left? Fifty?
Jon Snow: I told Tormund and Orrel- we have more than a thousand men.
Mance Rayder: I showed you everything I had- the whole army, 100,000 strong, and what did you do? [Fellback sticks his knife into the table next to them, catching Jon's attention] You fired on us with everything you had. It wasn't much. Soon as I saw that, I sent 400 men to climb the Wall- an unmanned stretch five miles west of here. [Jon looks directly at him, realizing his bluff has failed] A lot of them will die climbing, but most of them will be over by the end of the day. Here's me being honest with you, Jon Snow, which is more than you've ever done for me. My people have bled enough. We're not here to conquer, we're here to hide behind your Wall, just like you. We need your tunnel. Now, we both know that winter is coming- and if my people aren't south of the Wall when it comes in earnest, we'll all end up worse than dead. You want to strike a bargain with me? Here's the bargain. You go back, you open the gates to us, and I swear to you that no-one else will die. Refuse- and we'll kill every last man in Castle Black. [he suddenly sees Jon eyeing the knife in the table again and realizes he's really come to assassinate him; two of his men draw their swords and advance on Jon, but Mance stops them, smiling coldly at Jon] Ohhh...that's why you're here. I reckon you could do it before any of 'em could stop you. They'd kill you, of course- they'd kill you slow- but you knew that when you came in here. Are you capable of that, Jon Snow? Killing a man in his own tent when he's just offered you peace? Is that what the Night's Watch is? Is that what you are? [Jon stares back at him, and then a battle horn sounds, followed by Wildlings shouting. Mance grabs the knife and holds it to Jon's throat] You attackin' us?!
Jon Snow: [genuinely surprised] No- it's like you said, we don't have the men!

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[An army of armored cavalry, carrying Stannis Baratheon's banners, has launched a surprise pincer attack on the larger but disorganized Wildling army, riding into the forest from both directions. Mance rushes outside the tent and tries to gain control over his men, with many of his bodyguards gathering around him]
Mance Rayder: HOLD! To me! [He and Jon Snow watches in horror as many of the Wildlings are slaughtered. As the cavalry pincers collide, the fighting becomes increasingly one-sided as the Wildlings are overwhelmed; many of them flee towards Mance's camp]
Mance Rayder: STAND DOWN! [he throws his axe to the ground angrily] I said my people have bled enough, and I meant it! [As Stannis Baratheon and Davos Seaworth ride into his camp, he glares at them defiantly. Davos, Stannis and two guards dismount and walk towards them; one of the Wildlings attempts to attack them but is cut down by one of the horsemen. Mance draws his sword and dagger and drops them next to his axe. Realizing Mance is surrendering, Davos and the guards sheath their swords]
Baratheon cavalryman: Round them up!
Stannis Baratheon: [stopping in front of Mance and Jon, to Mance] You're the "King Beyond the Wall"? {Mance nods, both of them smile coldly at each other] Do you know who I am?
Mance Rayder: Never had the pleasure.
Davos Seaworth: This is Stannis Baratheon, the one true King of the Seven Kingdoms.
Mance Rayder: We're not in the Seven Kingdoms, and you're not dressed for this weather.
Stannis Baratheon: [pause] It is customary to kneel when surrendering to a King. [long pause, then Mance smiles and shakes his head]
Mance Rayder: We do not kneel. [Davos glares at him]
Stannis Baratheon: I'll have thousands of your men in chains by nightfall. I have nothing to feed them and nowhere to put them. I'm not here to slaughter beat dogs- their fate depends on their King.
Mance Rayder: [smiles and shakes his head again] All the same- we do not kneel. [Stannis stares at him then turns to his guards]
Stannis Baratheon: Take these men away. [the two guards draw their swords again and step forward]
Davos Seaworth: [looking at Jon] What's a man of the Night's Watch doing in a Wildling camp?
Jon Snow: I was sent to discuss terms with the King Beyond the Wall.
Davos Seaworth: [angrily] You're speaking to the one true King, boy. You will address him as "Your Grace".
Jon Snow: I know he's the King. My father died for him. [Stannis looks at him, Jon meets his gaze] My name is Jon Snow, Your Grace. I'm Ned Stark's son.
Stannis Baratheon: [looks more directly at Jon, pauses] Your father was an honorable man.
Jon Snow: He was, Your Grace.
Stannis Baratheon: What do you think he'd have done with him?[indicates Mance; Jon looks at Mance, while Mance stares defiantly at Stannis]
Jon Snow: [steps closer to Stannis, indicates Mance] I was this man's prisoner, once. He could've tortured me, he could've killed me... but instead he spared my life. [Stannis looks from Jon to Mance] I think my father would've taken him prisoner and listened to what he had to say. [long pause]
Stannis Baratheon: Very well, then. [turns to Davos] Take him prisoner. Davos walks alongside the unrestrained Mance, escorting him into captivity. Stannis watches him go]
Jon Snow: Your Grace? [Stannis turns back to him] If my father had seen the things that I've seen, he'd also tell you to burn the dead before nightfall- all of them.

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Jon visits Tormund in his confinement at Castle Black]
Tormund Giantsbane: Your old blind man patched me up. Why?
Jon Snow: He's sworn to treat all wounded men, friend or foe.
Tormund Giantsbane: You want me alive so you can torture me?
Jon Snow: No one's going to torture you.
Tormund Giantsbane: How do we die? Hanging? Beheading? Drop us from the top of the Wall?
Jon Snow: I don't know what happens to the prisoners.
Tormund Giantsbane: Who decides?
Jon Snow: I suppose Stannis does.
Tormund Giantsbane: He your king now?
Jon Snow: I don't have a king.
Tormund Giantsbane: You spent too much time among us, Jon Snow. You can never be a kneeler again.
Jon Snow: We're gonna burn the bodies of your dead. Do you want to say any words over them?
Tormund Giantsbane: Words? What kind of words?
Jon Snow: Funeral words. I don't know how the free folk do it.
Tormund Giantsbane: Do what?
Jon Snow: [pauses for a moment] Say farewell.
Tormund Giantsbane: The dead can't hear us, boy. [Jon nods and makes his way to the door] Snow. [Jon turns back] Did you love her? She loved you.
Jon Snow: She told you?
Tormund Giantsbane: No. All she ever talked about was killing you. That's how I know. [voice breaks slightly] She belongs in the North - the real North. You understand me?

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
Cersei: I was sitting on the Iron Throne with Tommen. I was about to give him essence of nightshade, that's how far I was willing to go when I thought someone awful had come to take my son away. Someone awful is coming to take him away. Joffrey is dead, Myrcella has been sold like livestock, and now you want to ship me off to Highgarden and steal my boy, my last boy. Margarey will dig her claws in, you will dig your claws in, and you will fight over him like beasts until you rip him apart. I will burn our house to the ground before I let that happen.

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
Cersei: [to Tywin] How can someone so consumed by the idea of his family have any conception what his actual family was doing?

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Bran, Hodor and Meera are led into the Heart Tree, escaping the dead, meeting what appears to be an old man]
Bran Stark: You're the three-eyed raven.
The Three-Eyed Raven: I have been many things. Now, I am what you see.
Meera Reed: My brother...he led us to you, and now he --
The Three-Eyed Raven: He knew what would happen. From the moment he left, he knew... and he went anyway.
Meera Reed: How do you know?
The Three-Eyed Raven: I have been watching you. All of you. All of your lives. With a thousand eyes, and one. Now you come to me at last, Brandon Stark... though the hour is late.
Bran Stark: I didn't want anyone to die for me.
The Three-Eyed Raven: He died so you could find what you have lost.
Bran Stark: You're going to help me walk again?
The Three-Eyed Raven: You will never walk again. But you will fly.

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Arya sees Brienne and Podrick approach]
Arya: [to Sandor, who is off-screen] People coming. You can shit later, there's people coming.
Brienne: Morning.
Arya: Morning.
Brienne: I like your sword. Are we getting close to the Bloody Gate?
Arya: About ten more miles.
Brienne: You hear that, Podrick? Only ten more miles to the Bloody Gate.
Arya: Are you a knight?
Brienne: No.
Arya: But you know how to use that sword.
Brienne: I do.
Arya: Does it have a name?
Brienne: Oathkeeper.
Arya: Mine's Needle.
Brienne: Good name.
Arya: Who taught you how to fight?
Brienne: My father.
Arya: Mine never wanted to. Said fighting was for boys.
Brienne: Mine said the same. But I kept fighting the boys anyway, kept losing. Finally my father said, "If you're going to do it, you might as well do it right."
[Sandor emerges]
Brienne: Seven blessings. I'm Brienne of Tarth, this is Podrick Payne.
Sandor: You want something?
Podrick: That's Sandor Clegane. The Hound.
Brienne: [realizing] You're Arya Stark.
Sandor: I asked if you wanted something.
Brienne: I swore to your mother I would bring you home to her.
Arya: My mother's dead.
Brienne: I know. I wish I chould have been there to protect her.
Arya: You're not a Northerner.
Brienne: No, but I swore a sacred vow to protect her.
Arya: Why didn't you?
Brienne: She commanded me to bring Jaime Lannister back to King's Landing.
Sandor: You're paid by the Lannisters? You're here for the bounty on me?
Brienne: I'm not paid by the Lannisters.
Sandor: No? Fancy sword you got there. Where'd you get it? I've been looking at Lannister gold all my life. Go on, Brienne of fucking Tarth, tell me that's not Lannister gold.
Brienne: Jaime Lannister gave me this sword.
Arya: [now distrustful] The Bloody Gate is ten miles.
Brienne: I swore to your mother by the Old gods and the New-
Arya: I don't care what you swore.
Brienne: Arya!
Sandor: You heard the girl. She's not coming with you.
Brienne: She is.
[Sandor and Brienne draw swords]
Sandor: You're not a good listener. [eyes Oathkeeper] Valyrian steel. I always wanted some Valyrian steel.
Brienne: Come with me, Arya. I'll take you to safety.
Sandor: Safety?! Where the fuck's that? Her aunt in the Eyrie is dead, her mother's dead, her father's dead, her brother's dead, Winterfell is a pile of rubble. There is no safety, you dumb bitch. You don't know that by now, you're the wrong one to watch over her.
Brienne: That's what you're doing? Watching over her?
Sandor: Aye. That's what I'm doing.

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Arya finds the mortally-wounded Hound at the bottom of a ravine, after being defeated by Brienne]
Sandor Clegane: Are you still here? [coughs up blood] Big bitch saved you.
Arya Stark: I don't need saving.
Sandor Clegane: [sardonically] No, not you. You're a real killer, with your water-dancing and your Needle.
Arya Stark: [flatly] You going to die?
Sandor Clegane: Unless there's a maester hiding behind that rock... aye. I'm done. I'd skin you alive for wine. [Arya reaches for her waterskin] Fuck water! [chuckles] Killed by a woman. I bet you like that. Go on. Go after her. She'll help you. [Arya shakes her head] Going it alone, you won't last a day out there.
Arya Stark: I'll last longer than you.
Sandor Clegane: You remember where the heart is? [Arya nods] Fuck it... I'm ready. Go on, girl. Another name off your list. You kept promising me... [Arya just stares at him] I cut down your butcher's boy, the ginger. He was begging for mercy. "Please, ser, please don't kill me! Please! Please!" Bled all over my horse. Saddle stunk of butcher's boy for weeks. And your sister, your pretty sister. I should've taken her, that night the Blackwater burned. I should've fucked her bloody. At least I'd have one happy memory! [Arya does not react, continues to stare] Do I have to beg you? Do it. [voice breaking] Do it. Do it! [Arya stands and approaches him, hand on her swordhilt...but instead she kneels and takes his gold pouch] Kill me. Kill me! KILL ME! KILL ME!!!

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Hearing commotion outside his cell, Tyrion believes his executioners have come]
Tyrion Lannister: Oh, get on with it, you son of a whore... [is surprised to see Jaime enter]
Jaime Lannister: [amused] Is that any way to speak about our mother?
Tyrion Lannister: What are you doing?
Jaime Lannister: What do you think I'm doing? [leads Tyrion out of his cell] Galley's waiting in the bay, bound for the Free Cities.
Tyrion Lannister: Who's helping you?
Jaime Lannister: Varys.
Tyrion Lannister: [shocked] Varys?
Jaime Lannister: You have more friends than you thought. [leads Tyrion to a stairwell] There's a locked door at the top of the stairs. Knock on it twice, then twice again. Varys will open it.
Tyrion Lannister: [quietly] I suppose this is goodbye, then. [Jaime kneels and embraces him, kissing his cheek]
Jaime Lannister: Farewell, little brother. [he stands and turns to leave]
Tyrion Lannister: Jaime... [Jaime turns back] Thank you... for my life.
Jaime Lannister: Quickly, now. [leaves]

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Wielding Joffrey's crossbow, Tyrion confronts Tywin, disrobed in the privy in the Tower of the Hand]
Tywin Lannister: [surprised] Tyrion. Put down the crossbow. [Tyrion stands firm] Who released you? Ah, your brother, I expect. He always had a soft spot for you. Come, we'll go and talk in my chambers. [Tyrion holds up the crossbow as Tywin makes to stand] This is how you want to speak to me, hmm? Shaming your father has always given you pleasure --
Tyrion Lannister: All my life... you've wanted me dead.
Tywin Lannister: [nodding] Yes. But you refused to die. I respect that; even admire it. You fight for what's yours. I'd never let them execute you. Is that what you fear? I'd never let Ilyn Payne take your head. You're a Lannister. You're my son.
Tyrion Lannister: [whispers] I loved her.
Tywin Lannister: Who?
Tyrion Lannister: Shae.
Tywin Lannister: [disbelievingly] Oh, Tyrion... put down that crossbow.
Tyrion Lannister: I murdered her... with my own hands.
Tywin Lannister: It doesn't matter.
Tyrion Lannister: "Doesn't matter"?
Tywin Lannister: She was a whore.
Tyrion Lannister: [coldly] Say that word again...
Tywin Lannister: And what? You'll kill your own father in the privy? No... you're my son. Now, enough of this nonsense.
Tyrion Lannister: I am your son, and you sentenced me to die. You knew I didn't poison Joffrey, but you sentenced me all the same. Why?
Tywin Lannister: Enough. We'll go back to my chambers and speak with some dignity.
Tyrion Lannister: I can't go back there. She's in there.
Tywin Lannister: You're afraid of a dead whore? [Tyrion looses the crossbow bolt into Tywin's gut; Tywin grunts with pain as he is slammed back into the wall from the force; Tyrion calmly pulls the catch back] You shot me... [he groans in pain as he glares at Tyrion, who loads another bolt] You're no son of mine.
Tyrion Lannister: I am your son. I have always been your son. [Tyrion fires another bolt into Tywin's chest, killing him]

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
[Arya approaches the crew of a ship]
Arya Stark: I want to see the captain.
Braavosi Captain: You're seeing him.
Arya Stark: I want to go North, to the Wall.
Braavosi Captain: No, you don't.
Arya Stark: I can pay.
Braavosi Captain: There is nothing in the North but ice, war, and pirates.
Arya Stark: I wouldn't need a cabin. Please! I can work, scrubbing the floors --
Braavosi Captain: I'm not going North, child, I'm going home.
Arya Stark: Where's home?
Braavosi Captain: The Free City of Braavos.
Arya Stark: [remembering something] Wait! I have something else!
Braavosi Captain: More silver won't make a difference.
Arya Stark: It's not silver. [shows the captain the coin that Jaqen H'ghar gave her] It's iron.
Braavosi Captain: This... [stunned] How did you --?
Arya Stark: Valar Morghulis.
Braavosi Captain: [bowing his head to her] Valar Dohaeris. Of course, you shall have a cabin.

  --  The Children [4.10]
%
